you know , one of the great esteem in traveling and one of the joys in ethnographic research is to live with people who remember the old days , which still can &apos;t feel the old days , which may still be able to feel the wind , which is still in the wind , who can &apos;t feel them on the winds of the
just knowing that jaguating shamanos still would travel beyond the milky way , or the importance of the myths of the oldest of the inuit , are still quite meaning , or that the fact that the hharma &apos;s is still the buddhist of the dharma , means that the world in which we live , not in a totally sense , but only a model of reality as a result of a group of different capacities for adapting our ancestors , the way we &apos;ve been successful , overwhelmingly , many generations ago . a group of individual capacities for adapting
and of course , we all share the same adaptation . . .
we &apos;re all born . we bring children to the world . .
we &apos;re running through partnerals . .
we need to deal with the inexorant separation by death , and therefore we shouldn &apos;t surprise that we all sing , dancing and making art . . .
but what &apos;s interesting is the unique piece of the song , the rhythm of dance in every culture . , the
this doesn &apos;t matter whether it &apos;s penan in the forests of borneo , or the birds in the field of the field , or the warrior in the cawman desert of the north kenya , or the warrior in the cain-desert desert of the north kenya , the curriculum in the people , or a caravan shepherd in the upside , or a hoavan shepherd in the upper qomelangma , everest , the godmother of the world . , godmother of the world
all these people are telling us that there are other opportunities , other ways of orienting , other ways of guidance on earth . . .
and this is an idea that , if you think about it , one of the things that , if
together , the county of the world together form a web of spiritueline and cultural life that will wrap the earth and the good for the benefit of the earth as the biological life grid that you know as a biosphere . . . . . .
you can think of this cultural grid as a ethnicity -- ethnosphere can be able to think about as the total sum of all thought and dreams , myths of ideas , and inspiration , that have been brought out from the human imagination since the beginning of consciousness . . . .
the ethnosphere is the great legacy of humanity .
it and &apos;s just the like symbol the of bioall sphere of was what very we much are covered and , what this we is are what as interan acts amazing
with wisethitnoarian city species -- . just more . than that . . . veltial . . . at all
not a biologist would claim for example , that 50 percent or more species are just dying before the dying , because it &apos;s simply not true , and yet , this -- the apocalyptic clerarium in the field of biological diversity -- hardly none of what we think is a optimistic of the most optimizing scenario on the area of cultural diversity . hardly of what we
and the key indicator of this is the extinction of languages . .
when each of them were born in this room , 6,000 languages were talking about the earth . .
now , language is not just the whole vocabulary of the vocabulary or a series of gramma@@
it &apos;s an expression of the human mind . .
it &apos;s a device that the soul of a certain culture can find to the material world .
each language is like an incentive forest of the mind , a deflect point , a sense that we have spiritual possibilities
and of those 6,000 languages , as we sit here in monterey , half of which is not being cracked in the ears of children . half of them
they &apos;re not taught to do small kids anymore , which means that if nothing is done , they &apos;re already dead .
what could be more vulnerable than being dishes , one of the last largest people in your people who speak your language , have no possibility to pass the wisdom of ancestors on earth , or to expect hope ? kids ? kids ? kids ? kids ?
and yet this terrifying fate actually resonates anyone on the earth , about every two weeks , about every two weeks , an elderly person and taking the last silver of an old language to the grave . . . . .
and i know some of you will say , &quot; isn &apos;t it better ? &quot; if the world isn &apos;t a better place , if we would only speak one language ? &quot; and i say , &quot; well , let &apos;s make this language in uuba . let &apos;s be kanic . kanoian .
let &apos;s be the kogi . &quot;
and then suddenly , you would suddenly recognize how it would be if you couldn &apos;t speak your language .
so today i want to take you on a trip across ethnocity , a short journey through ethnosphere , to try to clear them what actually has been lost . . . . a way of trying to clear them what &apos;s actually going on
now , there are some of us who remember , forget in a certain way , that if i say , &quot; different ways of being being , &quot; really different ways
for example , for example , this kid of barasana in the northwest , the people of anabeda , believe that they came up mythologically the milky river of the east of sacred dogs . . . a hol-@@
this is a people that are not differentially between the colors blue and green , because the sky is the forest that &apos;s advocated by the forest , the people in the world . . . . . . .
they have a strange language , and a married sign that linguistic executives is called : you have to marry someone who speaks other language . .
all of this roots in the mythological past , the strange thing about these big houses , which are talked about , because of the mischee six or seven languages , is that you never hear anybody who learns a language .
they only hear and start talking . .
or , one of the most fascinating tribes that i &apos;ve ever lived , the orani in the northeast of ecuador , is an amazing people that &apos;s been contacted for the first year in
in 1957 , five missional contact would be taken up and doing a weigh@@
they took the shiny photos of the air off the air , which we would do as a friendly gesture , and they just made a two-dimensional thing , and they had never seen a two-dimensional thing . in their
they raised these photographs from forest floor , trying to see behind the face or the figure , they found out , and concluded that this was more business cards of the devil and killed the five missionaries with the spearers . . .
but the oranani would not only kill the other . .
they were taking each other .
54 percent of deaths happened through drilling . . .
we followed the geneology of eight generations and we found two cases of a natural death , and when we asked people about the pressure of the people , they gave them a little bit about the idea that they had become so old on his aage , and we were killing him with the spears . .
but at the same time , they had a clear knowledge of the forest , the amazing thing . . .
their hunters could smell the urinary of a 40 quarters away and identify what animals like of that
in the early 80s , i got a really amazing job when my professor asked me to go to haiti and to refilming the secret societies who were the foundation of the strengths of duvalians and claton macoute and the grain that was used to do to make zombies , make sure you know . sure . . in charge
and to make sense of this race , i had to know , of course , about this remarkable faith of the vodouuy and voodoo is not a cult of black magic .
in the contrary , it &apos;s a complex metaphysical view . .
it &apos;s interesting .
if i asked you , what would you say , counting the great world &apos;s world . what
christianity , islam , buddhism , judaism , or whatever .
a continent is always left because the guess was that in sub-saharan africa , there was no religious belief , and of course it was a fake and voodoo , and it was just the remaining of that very profound religious thought that came from the tragic time of slavery time . . .
but what makes voodoo really makes it interesting is this living relationship between the living and the dead . .
the living feats . the ghosts . .
the spirits can be described by under the great water , responding answers to the rhythm of the dance , to deny the soul of the living , so that accoth for a brief shamyful moment will become a little shamy moment
and the voodooians liked to say , &quot; your white walks to church , and you talk about god .
we dance in the temple , become god . &quot;
and because you &apos;re obsessed with your mind , how can you feel harm ? how can you feel har@@
and look at this amazing demonstrations : voodoo akareth in a transfermation of a transfersance of the light of light , which is an amazing performance of the mind to influence the body that it &apos;s happening when it &apos;s being transformed into a state of extreme extremes . . .
now , of all the people i &apos;ve met were the kogi from the sierra nevada mountains in northern columbia , the most extraordinary thing . . . . . .
the old tyrannian civilization , which populated the caribbean &apos;s shoreline of colombia , and over the conquest of the conquest , this people became a massive volcanic massively , which rises up over the caribbean coastal plain . . . .
in a blood vessel , the continent , those people , were the only ones who never had the spanians
and to this day , they &apos;re being used by a ritual priesthood , and the training to the priesthood is very extraordinary .
the young achyds are separated at age three and four by the age of three and four years of the explosion of the explosion , in stone housing in stone housing for 18 years . two periods of the glaciers for the nine years , in intent to mimic the nine months of pregnancy they spent in their premise to mimic mom , they &apos;d spend metamorphoric in the lap of
and during that whole period of time , you become a culturally involved in the values of their society , and the values that sustain the claim that your prayers and their prayers -- the balance maintain , is the equivalent of the ecological --
at the end of this amazing initiation , you &apos;ll suddenly be put out someday and the first time in your life , at age 18 , you see a sunlight , and in that crystal moment of the first light of the first light , when the sun begins , the sun starts to shine the amazing landscape , suddenly everything they &apos;ve learned in the abstract , amazing landscape , and the priest passing back and says , &quot; you see ? it &apos;s really , like , i &apos;ve been telling you . how i &apos;ve told
it &apos;s so wonderful . you have to protect it . &quot; .
they call the older brothers and they say that we are the younger brothers , the destruction of the world . . . . . .
now this level of intuition is very important . .
every time we think of a native and land , we either swallowed it up in a seau and the old framework of the nocious wild that &apos;s a rap , or thoreau and say , these people are more connected to nature than we are . . . thoreau and say , these people are
so , indigenally , individuals are not sentimental , they &apos;re just being washed up by nostalgi@@
there &apos;s not a lot of space for the malaria superseaf of asmat or the cold jumps from tibet , but you still have a mysterious nimbus , but you still have a mysterious nimbus , but the idea that the earth can only exist because it &apos;s taken into the human mind . subtle intuition , the idea that the earth can only exist because it &apos;s inherited into human consciousness . . , the idea that the earth can only exist
now , what does that mean ?
it means that a little kid from the angles that grows in the belief that the mountain is a ago mind that can be able to define or her fate , will become a very different person , and a different relationship with that resource , or this place , as a little child from montana that can be dedicated to . that a mountain can be dedicated to
whether it &apos;s an unveiling location of a mind or a bunch of contexts is
the metaphor is the metaphor that defines the relationship between the individual and the nature . .
i grew up in the woods of the u.k. colombia and believed that these forests were there to be
this made me to another human being as my friends under the kwasboudl who believe that these forests of the emergence of hukuk and the boiled hift sabbaks and the cannibaly rests are sabbad , and the cannibaly of the world , who are in the nordian , which is in the nordian . .
now , when you start to think of the idea that these cultures can create different realities , you can understand some of their extraordinary discoveries , and for example , this plant here .
it &apos;s a photograph i took just last april in the northwest . .
this is ayahuanca , many of you have heard about the most powerful psychoactive preparts of the guperaman of the shame .
what ayahuanca does so fascinating is not just the pharmacological potential of this premium , but the processing -- it &apos;s really made out of two different sources . on the one hand , there &apos;s this wooden liane that &apos;s a series of funds , a lot of funds , and the harmolin is mixing , just like a blue trunk of the coffeehouses , the mere of the &quot; selecting cart , &quot; just as a little hallucinate , a host of funds from the coffeear crop with the name of the &quot;
this plant contains some very strong tryptamine that are serotonin , dimethyar 5 and methodyydimethyin , very similar to the more serotyise .
if you &apos;ve ever seen the yanody , as you &apos;ve seen this stuff , this substance , that you &apos;re making from different forms of the different species , also methodydiceptors . . syangtam@@
this pocket is about being swwed up is something like being made by a gun of garopers , refumed by barox &apos;s painting and the land on a sea of electricity .
it will not generate a distortion of reality , but the resolution of reality . .
i even have my professor , richard evan shulte , who has been talking to the magical mushrooms in mexico , who discusses the magical mushrooms in mexico over the years , and i said that you couldn &apos;t register this triffoine as hallucination , because in the moment you feel the implications you can &apos;t get there , to learn a hallucination . . . . in
but the thing about trypacine is that they cannot be placed in place , because they &apos;re not being placed by a human body in the human body , of course , denaturidies .
you can only be put in with some other chemicals , which is the mao denaturier . .
now the amazing thing is that the takparts that are contained in the liane , mao inhibitors from exactly the way that we need to enable the trypacine to possibly enhance the tryp@@
how can these people go from a flora of 80,000 species of adjusting plants that , if they &apos;re commoditizing , are not in the way that they combine , a kind of biochemical version , so that the entire thing is bigger than the sum of
we use this great euphemism , trial and mistakes , which determines as a matter of significance . .
but you ask the indian people say , &quot; the plant talks to us . &quot; , he &apos;s
so , what does that mean ?
this tribe , the cotra , have 17 bysess-sized ayahuanca , who you all recognize in the forest , which appeared to our eyes as a way . . . . .
and then you ask them how they set their taxonomy and they say , &quot; i thought you understand the plants . .
i mean , you know nothing ? &quot; and i said , &quot; no . &quot; . &quot;
so , it turns out you take each one of the 17 varences with full moon and you sing to one in a different scarcity . . .
now , that gives you no doctoration at harvard , but it &apos;s much more interesting than trigger . . . .
well , the problem is that , even though those of us who have the sympathy for the hardest state of inherent people , they look at them as orgina and colorful , but they somehow recovery from the past as the real world , the sooner
so , the fact is that the 20th century , you know , in 300 years , you haven &apos;t reremember for his wars or technological innovations , but rather than to an era in which we were against and the massive destruction of the biological and cultural diversity on earth are either active and accepted to more and more , and so the problem is not the change . .
all cultures have been involved in the dance of new opportunities . . . . .
and the problem is not technology . .
the sioux indian stopped not less in sioux than she arays and arry tasks when the americans stopped being americans when they were horse and the dedicit tasks . . .
not change and technology endangered the integrity of ethnosphere , and it &apos;s power . the ugly face of the ruling . .
and wherever you look around the world , you will discover that these cultures are not bound to the bottom , these are dynamic people whose existence is not bound by the cognitive forces , and these are dynamic people who lived in their own capacity , and are in fact , whether it &apos;s the immengration of the penent in the home of penad , a nomadic people in southeast asia , and it seems locked in a population of the forest , and now , in the case of the yanody , it &apos;s been locked in the forest that seems to be fed in the forest , or like in the case of the yanody , where it &apos;s the coroge of the japanese &apos;s fracture that seems to be fed up to the forest . , like in the case of the yanody , that &apos;s ready to take away their shippets with rose cranks that have been fed up to the forest , or like in the case of the yanody
or if we go to tibet , where i &apos;m a good , new face , you &apos;ll see the nasty face of the political dominance . . . .
you know , the genocide , the physical extinction from people , is convicted of being convicted of people , but ethnocid , the destruction of the human condition , is not just convicted , but generally , general and a multi-profit strategy . . . . .
and you can &apos;t understand the suffering , if you don &apos;t have it on any subsistence
i went to a young colleagues 6,000 miles from chengdu in west china , from southeastern tibet to the south , and only when i saw the lhasa , the face behind the statistics of the people that were murdered . 6,000 lifel-minded monuments that were turned into shooting and ashit . 1.2 million people spent during the cultural revolution . during the cs of the soil .
the father of this young manager was identified as followers of the baby .
and that meant that , during the chinese invasion , it was murdered by the
his uncle flew with its holiness to the diaspora , people after nepal . .
his mother was locked as punishment -- to be the crime for pro@@
he was thrown into jail at age two to hide him with her rockist chots , because she couldn &apos;t live with him . . . without him &#93; she
the nurse who did this brave did was brought into an educational camp .
one day , she would go out of smooth on a armband of maos and for those surrendered surrendered for seven years into a heavy labor camp .
the suffering is intolerable , but the resolution of people is something unforgered . . the spirit of people is
and at the end of us , we &apos;re really in a choice , is , in a monochromatic world of monoty , or in a polychromatic world of diversity ? ? ? ? ?
margaret mead , the great anthropologist said , before she died that her fear was the most fear that while we move towards a path , we would see , in a given , general , general view , we would not only see the entire range of human imagination on a marked way , but that we would one day be up to a dream , and forgot that there was no other possibility .
and it &apos;s humbling to think that our species have been there for 200 years since for about 60 years . .
the neolithic revolution that we put in agriculture , and we put ourselves in the very moment of the cult of the seeds in the moment , who refers the prosthetion of the prosthet , and hierarchy , specialization and forgotten , created -- found only 10,000 years
modern industrial world as we know it is likely to be 300 years old .
now , this superficial story doesn &apos;t tell me that we all have answers to the challenges we have in the coming millennia . in the millennia . . .
if we ask these fonty cultures of the world , they say it at 10,000 different votes . , they respond
and in this song , we &apos;re going to rediscover the possibility of being what we are : people with full consciousness , who are aware of the importance of all humans and gardens , and there are great moments of optimism . moments of optimism . . moments of
here &apos;s a photograph i took on the north end of the buffin islands when i was going to the narwhale ligd with the narwhale hunting , and this man , olaya , told me a wonderful story of his grandfather
the eastern government is not always very good at the inuit and during the 50th years in the seats of our accounting , they were forced to move in settlments . . .
the grandfather of this old man . . .
the family , the fear of his life , took him all the guns and all the tools . .
now the you glihave der to seemed know in that the the original in, uiniit tially has , not from
terrifish fied that of was the wracold pped , in they carused bothem u to skin gain . their
the man &apos;s grandfather didn &apos;t really fear the arctic night or the wedling storm . . . .
he blew out , he left his pants from the martrabsr down , and he was picking down his hand , and when the feces began to freeze it , he turned it into the form of a
and he &apos;s spraying the pages of the stroukers , and when it was fully frozen , it &apos;s kind of like a dog with it . . . a dog
he got the dog and improvised a failed , took the skeleton of the dog and improvised a sleek , a different dog , and he went and went and got a very bad , scaltered , kind of a different dog , and went and got over the ch@@
so you can do something from anything .
and this is a symbol of many ways a symbol of the inuit and all the domestic in the world . . . .
the canadiit government gave the inuit in 1999 the complete control over an area that &apos;s bigger than california and texas . . . . texas
it it &apos;s &apos;s our an new independent home area country . , you and control it
all &apos;s the called minernals un. av. gras . .
an amazing example of how a nation , a state , is searched for his heritage
and finally , i think it &apos;s pretty obvious , at least for those of us who have traveled to these distant goals on earth , to recognize that they &apos;re not all about . at all . .
they are the homes of somebody .
they represent some of the human imagination that will return to times , and for all of us , the dreams of these children , like the dreams of our own children , are part of the geography of hope . . . . .
what we &apos;re trying to do at national geographic is that we think that politicians never achieve anything . . . . .
we believe that polemics -- we believe that polemics are not compelling , but we think that storytelling is really the world , and therefore we &apos;re probably the best institution for storytelling in the world . our website receives 35 million people every month . our website recei@@
15we 6 are nations going send to out read
our about tv millions chanof nel cards . .
and we &apos;re entering a series of travel to ethnosphere where we &apos;re taking our audience to places like such cultural wrestings , that they &apos;re fed by the blessed , and hopefully , they &apos;re going to take the central declaration of anthropology : that this world is earning to exist in many ways , that we can find a way of living a living opportunity in a truly multiculstic , kind of the wisdom of all people to our common well-being . . . , where the wisdom of all people to our common well-being is to help us in a multi@@
thank you . .
first of all , as quickly as possible , i &apos;ll show you , the basic work , a new technology that microsoft as part of a year ago , we have a whole reference to the microsoft , which is seadragon . and it &apos;s an environment that you can either transfer local or distinguished with vast amounts of visual data . . . si@@
we see many , many gigabytes on digital photographs here , you can get seamlessless and continuing , and we can remove , in whatever way , fresh . fresh . . . . .
and it doesn &apos;t matter how much information we look at , how big these collections are , or how big the images are .
most of you are digital shows a camera , but this one &apos;s like a scanning of congress , and it &apos;s in a field of 300 megapix . in a field of 3@@
it doesn &apos;t matter , because the only thing that does the power of a system like this is the number of pixels on your screen in every moment . it has a very flexible architecture . . . .
this is a whole book , an example of un-dimensional data . .
this is bleak house of thickens . each column is a chapter . .
to prove that it &apos;s really about text and not a picture , we can do something like that to really show that this is a real representation of texts and not picture . . . .
maybe this is an artificial way to read an e-book . . .
i wouldn &apos;t recommend it .
this is a very realistic case . this is an exact of the guardian .
every big picture is the beginning of a securce
and that gives you a really good kind of pleasure and a real papering experience , or reading a real papering for a magazine or a newspaper , which is kind of a
we also did something on the corner of this particular output of the guardian . .
we &apos;ve designed a false display with very high resolution , which is much higher than a normal display , and we added an information added . . . . .
if you want to see the functions of the car , you can see it here .
or other models , or even technical specifications .
and we this hope is that really this this means ideas that that this really means lead that to this this is , not this a limitpo@@
ations p-of uthe ps available and place other on nonthe sense screen , . that should a not screen be . necessary .
of course , the mapping is one of the really obvious applications for a technology like this .
and i really don &apos;t want to spend much of this time except to say that we &apos;re also going to contribute in this realm .
but these are all the roads in the u.s.
and over the top of the room , nasa has overcome . .
let &apos;s now get a little different out of it .
now this is actually live on the internet . you can check it . .
this is a project called photosynth , which is really two different technologies together .
one is seadragon and the other is a very good research on computer vision that noah pinauses , who &apos;s a university of washington in washington , under the advice of steve siltz on the uv .
and rick szeliski &apos;s tedresearch research was done . very good collaboration
so this is live on the internet . it &apos;s driven by seadragon . .
you can see that if we create this kind of perspective , where we can capture through images and do this experience of a multiplebit of a multiplicity .
but the spaces that are in fact matter in the fact . in fact . .
the computer vision-algorithms have come up with these images so they would be able to get the real room in which these images , all in the middle of the grassi are laking into the canadian rockies , and you can see here , elements of stare didics or panoramic imaging and these things all were spatial with each other . .
i don &apos;t know if i &apos;ve got time to show you other environments .
there are ones that are much more spatial .
i &apos;d like to show one of the original data sets from noah , and this is from a early prototype of photosynth that we worked for first in the summer to show you what i believe is really the pointing point behind this technology , the photosynall technology , and this is not necessarily so obvious if you look at the environments we have on the website . . . technology ,
we had to make sure of the lawyers and so on .
this is a reconstruction of the cathedral note dame , which was just in computer with flickr , just give notes the dame of flickr . just give notes the ame of the people in t-shirts and the university of the university , and each of these orange boil represents a picture that was discovered as this model . &amp; lt ; em &amp; gt ; &amp; lt ; / em &amp;
so these are all flickr images , and they all are all around this way in relation to each other .
and we can navigate this very simple way . .
i mean , i never believed i &apos;d work at microsoft , i would have worked
i &apos;m very grateful for the reception here . . .
and i guess you can see that this is a lot of different types of cameras : everything is all about professional slots , a fairly large number of you all have been pulled together in this environment . a
and if possible , i &apos;m going to find some of the weird ones . .
many of you are rounded by faces . . . .
and somewhere here , there are a series of photographs -- here they are .
this is actually a poster of notre dame , which was really recorded . .
we can change from the poster to a physical view of the environment . .
the point here is that we can put things with social spaces , and it &apos;s now data from all the collective memory , like , visual memory , like , visual earth looks -- and everything is being interconnected . . . . .
all of these photos are being connected to each other , and what you get is something that &apos;s bigger than the sum of the parts
they get a model that comes out of the entire soil .
and look at this as the sequel of the work of stephen lawler &apos;s on
and this is something that is through the complexity that people use , and it &apos;s going to be getting bigger for users to use the user .
their own photographs are watching with metadata , which has another person in their own .
once someone has done their efforts and joined all those sacred , and shared with them who are all of them , then my photograph will be taken from the notre of the lady &apos;s cathedral , with all this data , and i can use them as a process of immersive modonable social experience with all this data , and i can use them as a kind of over-hailed kind of social experience of using other makers
and of course , the way we &apos;re all of it is the vast amount of virtual models of any interesting part of the earth that &apos;s not just been held through overfare or satellite images and so on , but by collective memory . . .
thank you . .
do i understand it right ? your software allowing that , within the next few years , all the images that someone made in the world are being used together in principle ? interconnected ? that &apos;s interconnected ? that &apos;s
yes . it doesn &apos;t make anything else than that .
if you want to create it , hyper-links between pictures .
and it &apos;s because of the content in the pictures . .
and that &apos;s really exciting when you think about the floating of the semantic information , which many of these images have .
as if you can take a web search for pictures , where you give sentences and the text of the website contains many information about what image that is . . .
but what if that picture put you with all of your pictures ?
and the amount of semantic parappip and the feet that they get really enormously . it &apos;s a classic network of social network .
blaise , this is really incredible . very happy . gratu@@
thank you . .
i &apos;m going to tell you a few things from my book that , i hope , that i hope in suggesting with other things is that i &apos;m just going to try to create some connections if you haven &apos;t noticed them . , if
i want to start with what i call &quot; official dogma . &quot; .
the official dogma of what ?
the official belief of all western industrialized societies . ,
so the official dogma works : when our goal is maximizing the social good of our citizens , most of all , is due to maximizing freedom of the single one . .
and the reason for this is that freedom is good in itself , valuable , meaningful , an unreliable premise for the
if people have freedom , each of us needs to do things about the things that our collective mamamitemize , and nobody has contributed to us . for us . . for us .
the journey to maximize freedom is to maximize . .
the more choices people have , the more freedom they have , and the more freedom they have , the more common the good . freedom they
this is , i think , in our water supply , that there would be no question in the sense of the water that it would be no
and it &apos;s also rooted in our lives . .
i &apos;m going to give you some examples of what we do with modern progress .
this is my supermarket . no big one . .
i just want to talk about salatyressing . .
there &apos;s 175 dressings in my supermarket , if you don &apos;t count the 10 different extra o.u. , and 12 balloevols that you could buy to make a large amount of your salad dessmout in the unlikely case , that not the 175 in the 175 countries are right . in the village for
so that &apos;s how the supermarket is . .
and then you go to the consumer electronics business to put a stereo in -- loudspeakers , cd players , radio , stronger , and in this one , one electronics business , there are so many stereo . there &apos;s so many stereo .
we can put in 6.5 million different stereo plots from the components that are offered in this one business . .
you have to admit that this is a great selection .
in other areas -- the world of communication . . .
there was a time when i was a boy , you could have any providers , you could have every single telephone you wanted , if he came from ma bell .
they rented your phone . they didn &apos;t buy it .
a consequence of that was that the phone had never broken . . .
these days are over . .
we have almost an infinite selection of telephones now in the world of mobile phones .
these are the mobile phones of the future .
my favorite one is that , mp3 playmy , no-hammers and crès wells géding each
and if you haven &apos;t seen that in your business , you can be sure that you &apos;ll soon become it . . . .
and what it does is it makes people walk into the business and ask people to go .
now , do you know what the answer to that question is ?
the answer is no . &quot; .
it &apos;s not possible to buy your mobile phone that doesn &apos;t do too too much .
in other parts of life , which are much more significant than buying things , the same explosion of choice is true . explosion .
you know , health health -- it &apos;s no longer the case in the united states , and the doctor tells you what to do . health tells you
instead , they go to the doc and the doctor tells you we could do a game , or we could do b . .
a has this advantages and risks . .
b has this advantages and risks . what do you want to do ? ?
and they say , &quot; doctor , what do i want to do ? &quot;
the doctor says , a has this advantages and the risks and b has the benefits and the risks . .
what do they want to do ? what
and if you say , &quot; if you were , doctor , what would you do ? &quot; ,
the doctor says , &quot; but i &apos;m not her . &quot; . &quot;
the result is -- we call it the patient autonomy , which sounds like a good thing , but in reality , it sounds like a good thing , but in reality , it &apos;s a shift of the burden of people &apos;s responsibility for somebody who knows something -- namely the doctor -- to somebody who doesn &apos;t know and most likely be a mistake -- namely the patient . . the patient . . .
there &apos;s a tremendous marketing for prescription drugs like you and me , that , if you think about it , doesn &apos;t make any sense , because we don &apos;t buy them . .
why do they raise us when we can &apos;t buy ? ?
and the answer is , you &apos;re expecting the doctor to come up the next morning and ask for a change of the forbil
now , something that is so profound as our identity is now a choice of choice , like this slide . . .
we don &apos;t get identity ; we invent them . . . .
and we &apos;re so often inventing ourselves as we want . .
that means that every day when you wake up at the morning , you have to decide what kind of person they want to be . ,
and in terms of marriage and family , there was a time when , almost everybody had a , and they had the same time as quickly as they could , and then they got to get a little car as quickly as they could .
the only real choice was , &quot; who , &quot; not when , and not what they did
now it &apos;s easy to have it . . .
i teach wonderful mental students , and i &apos;ll give you 20 percent less hours than i used to do .
and that &apos;s not because they &apos;re less smart , and not because they &apos;re less carefully . . .
it &apos;s because they &apos;re dealing with other things , they ask themselves , &quot; do i have to married or not ? am i going to get
should i marry later ? am i going to have to have kids , or no career ?
they &apos;re all over questions . .
and they &apos;re going to answer these questions , whether it means all the tasks i &apos;m going to do , and i &apos;m not going to get a good note in my
and in fact , they should do that . these are important questions
work -- we &apos;re blessed , like carl rhinled with the technology that enables us to work every single place from every place on the planet -- all the way down to the randolph hotel .
there &apos;s a corner , by the way , which i &apos;m not going to tell you about where the oil chip works . .
i won &apos;t tell you because i want to use it . .
so what it means to make this incredible freedom of choice is to make decisions of work , again and again , whether we should work or not work . . . . . . .
we can play our kids at soccer , and we can play our phone on a hip , and our chief on other hatberry , and we could potentially be on our laptop . . . .
and even if they &apos;re off all off , every minute that we &apos;re all shuffle with our child is a football game , and we also say , &quot; should i accept this call ? &quot; call
should i say that email ? should i write that letter ? &quot; ?
and even though the answer to the question , no , is it going to be very different from the place of walking ball of your child &apos;s mind , rather than it would have been .
everywhere we look , big things and little things , material things , life , life is a matter of choice . a matter of
and the world that we lived in there . this .
so i want to say there &apos;s a few choices , but not everything was a question of choice .
and and the the world question that is we , live are in they now
good is or this bad . news ? . news . ?
the answer is , &quot; yes .
we all all of know these about choices all have the two good effects , , so two i negative &apos;m effects going
to to humans talk . about something . very bad . about it . . . .
it &apos;s a paradoxical effect , paradoxically , is that it &apos;s paralyzed paralyzingly
with so many options that you can choose , people are very hard to decide at all .
i &apos;m going to give you another more drastic example of a study of investment in volunteers . . . . . .
a colleague of mine had access to investment collectors of vanguard , the giant fund of about a million employees , and about 2,000 different jobs . , about 2000 ,
and what she found was a 10 investment fund that was offered to give you the participation , and she took two percent off . .
they offer 50 investment fund -- 10 percent fewer employees participate in them as they want to feed five . why
because it &apos;s 50 investment fund that are standing for choosing , it &apos;s so hard to decide what to choose , you pour it up to tomorrow .
and then tomorrow , and then tomorrow , and tomorrow , and tomorrow , of course , will never come tomorrow .
now , you understand that this is not just , people have to eat hunger food when they go to the retirement , because they have not enough money to go back , it &apos;s also making decisions that they pay their employers to be customized . profession
not part of it , you can &apos;t give them 5,000 u.s. dollars per year from the workforce , who would have been happy to do their contributions . .
paralysis is a consequence of many choices . . .
and i think it makes the world like this . .
they really want to make the decision , if for all ages , it &apos;s right ? ?
they don &apos;t want the wrong investment fund or even the wrong saligar return . . . .
so this is the effect . the other effect is that even if we overcome the paralysis and make a decision , we end up with a decision with the outcome of choice , when we had the ability to decide between less opportunities . than we had had
and there are several reasons for this .
one of them is one is because of the great inception of different saligingings , if you buy one , and it &apos;s not perfect -- and , what salatar resist is perfectly ? it &apos;s just to imagine that you would have made a different decision that would have been better . and what &apos;s going to happen is this picture of salesar , which is perfect ? it &apos;s just a good decision to give it to the satisfaction that they made , and that made it negative to happiness that they made their choice , and that &apos;s the regre@@
the more possibilities there are , the more it &apos;s not to regret at all , is disappointling choices they &apos;re making . chooses they
second , what economists call opedition cost .
dan gilbert made a big point this morning by telling how much the way we evaluate things depends on what we &apos;re doing . .
well , if there &apos;s a lot of alternatives to account , it &apos;s simply attractive to be imagined , to visualize alternatives that they &apos;ve chosen to have less satisfied with the alternatives they &apos;ve chosen .
here &apos;s an example . for those of you who are not new yorkers , i apologize .
but here here &apos;s &apos;s a what couple you on should the
have hamthought p. tons . what you .
very expensive real estate .
beautiful strand . great day . you &apos;ve got it all for yourself .
what should be better ? fuelfueled &apos; fuckly , &quot; it &apos;s august . . .
everyone in my manhattan neighborhood is gone .
i could parking you straight in front of my house . &quot;
and he &apos;s begging two weeks from the thought that he missed the ability to get a day , a great parking lot . . .
oppertunary cost drops the happiness we get through our choice , even if that &apos;s a fantastic thing to be done . .
and the more opportunities to choice , the more attractive properties of those choices will be controlled into the opperic east . . . .
here &apos;s another example .
well , this cartoon makes some clues .
it &apos;s a statement that it &apos;s about to live in now , and maybe things slowly .
but the important point he &apos;s doing is always everybody who chooses to make a decision to do , don &apos;t choose to do other
and these other things like many more attractive traits , and it &apos;s what you will do with a lot less attractive . .
third : escalating expectations . .
this struck me when i wanted to exchange my jeans .
i &apos;m wearing jeans , almost all the time
and there was a time in which there was only about jeans in a way , and they bought her , and they missed , and they missed , they were incredibly uncompromised , and they had washed enough enough , and they were getting out of it
so to purchase new jeans , after many years of trading the old , and i said , &quot; i &apos;d like to have some jeans , here &apos;s my size . &quot; . &quot;
and the salesman said , &quot; do you want to borrow , slightly lower or spread ? &quot; ? a
do you want to get ripes or rippets ? stone or acid ? ? ? ?
do you want to solve jeans ?
would you like to cut out high , chunky , blah blah , blah ... &quot; and so on he said
my jaw was down , and after i recovered , i said , &quot; i &apos;d like to have the way that he used to be the only
he had no idea what it was , so i spent an hour teaching all these damn jeans to try and pay the business -- and i say the truth -- and i say the truth -- the best one jeas , i had
i had better choice . i gave it it to have a better job . .
but i felt worse .
why ? i wrote a whole book to try and explain myself . .
the reason that i felt worse was that with all this accessible capability , my expectations for what i could do for a good pair of jeans went
i had very low expectations . i had no concretitionary expectations than they just had
when she came to see 100 types , one of them should be perfect . one of them should be perfect
and what i got was good , but it wasn &apos;t perfect .
and so i compared what i had gotten , and what i was expecting was disappointing compared to what i expected . . what
add the possibility to people &apos;s lives elsewhere in the lives of people &apos;s lives , they &apos;re going to be able to get the expec@@
and this leads to less happiness , even though the results are good . results . . .
no one in the world of marketing knows this . because if you were , you all know what it &apos;s going on .
the truth is more like this .
and the reason is that , because it was worse than anything worse than anything was worse , it was possible for people to do it that were a pleasant surprise . .
nowadays , in the world where we live in -- we wealthile , industrialized citizens , with perfection as an expectation -- the best thing for you to hope is things as good as you &apos;re expecting it from
you &apos;ll never be comfortable surprised because your expectations , my expectations , your applications , are up to be
the secret to happiness -- that &apos;s what they &apos;ve all come from -- the secret to happiness is low expectations .
i want to say -- a short autobiographic moment -- that &apos;s when i married with a woman , and she &apos;s really quite wonderful . .
i could not have made it better . i didn &apos;t let myself down
but then , rear is not always a bad thing .
finally , a consequence of the buy of a bad seed by a bad jekening , if it &apos;s just a way to buy , that if you &apos;re uncontented , and you ask them why , who is responsible , the answer is accountable . what would you have done ?
if hundreds of different kinds of jeans are available , and they &apos;re buying the disappointment , and ask them , who is it responsible ? ?
it &apos;s also clear that the answer to the question is : you know .
they could have better . .
100 different kinds of jeans in the jungle , there are no excuse to erase mista@@
and so , when people make choices , and even though the results of the decisions are good , they feel disappointed to themselves , they accuse themselves .
clinical depression exploded in the industrial world over the last generation . in
i think i think a significant -- not the only but a significant advice to that explosion of depression , and also suicide , is that people have learned the disappointaps because their standards are so high , and then , if they have to explain this experience , think it would be their fault .
and so the image of the arbidial is that we &apos;re actually getting better , objective , and we
so let me just remind you .
this is the official dogma that we &apos;re all holding to really , completely false . it &apos;s not true . . . .
there &apos;s no question better than any choice is better than any , but it doesn &apos;t follow that more choice is better than any choice . .
there &apos;s a magical crowd . i don &apos;t know what it is .
i &apos;m pretty sure that we &apos;ve missed this point of the choice of the collective commodities . .
now , as a rule of mine , i &apos;m almost done -- as one set of rules , the thing about thinking about it : what all of these choices are enabling in the industrialized societies , the
there are many places in the world , and we &apos;ve heard of many of them whose problems are not too big . . . . .
your problem is they have too little . .
so the things i talk about are a strange problem of modern , rich , western societies . . . .
and what &apos;s so frustrating and unrivering is , steve levitt tells you about how this expensive and hard to quest , not help you . it &apos;s a waste of money . . . . .
what i &apos;m telling you is that these teurs , complicated decisions -- it &apos;s not easy you don &apos;t help .
they even hurt .
they make it worse for us to stand
if something comes from what makes us make decisions for our society to make decisions too little , not only would the lives of people have been disturbed , but what would be improved . . . . . . . .
economists call this a pareise improvement . . economists
income income is making sure that everybody else is going -- not just the poor -- because all of these big ingeniables are providing
finally , you have to read this cartoon , and , you know , a high-powered person , says , &quot; ah ! what does that fish know ? !
you know nothing very much in this goldfish glass . &quot; . &quot;
faked phantom , a short check of the world -- and that is the way i read it first . . .
but as i thought of it , i got the more convinced that the fish i think was something . .
because the truth is , if you break the gold fish glass , so everything is possible , you don &apos;t have freedom . you have a breath . . manage .
if you break the gold fish glass , so everything is possible , you put the happiness . satisfaction . .
they &apos;re increasing the paralysis and they &apos;re pouring the happiness .
everybody needs a gold fish glass . needs
this is almost limited to limited security -- possibly for fish , definitely for us . for us
but it &apos;s got a recipe from a metaphorical goldfish glass is a recipe for elity , and , i guess , catastrophic
thank you very much .
you know , i &apos;ve been talking about some of these projects already , about the human genome , and what this might mean , and the finding of new groups .
in fact , we &apos;re starting to digitize the new point : we &apos;re digitized , and now we &apos;re trying to get from the digital code into a new phase of biology by creating new lives and building
we &apos;ve always been trying to ask the big questions . .
what is life ? it &apos;s something i think many of the biologists tried to understand and that &apos;s in different levels .
we &apos;ve tried a variety of approaches to simplify it to the minimum components
we have , almost 20 years of digigitized , but when we sequenced the human genome , we turned it from analog world to the digital world of computers . . .
now , to ask whether we can regenerate life , or whether we can create new life , from that digital universe ? from that
this is the map of a small organism , mycoplasma , or the world &apos;s smallest genome , which has the smallest genome in a species &apos;s lab to replicate itself , and we &apos;ve tried to do that with a smaller genome . . .
we &apos;ve managed to get into about a hundred genes from 500 or so , which are here . . .
but if you look at these metabolic map that &apos;s very simple , compared to ours , and trust me , it &apos;s just dude . but if you look at all of these genes we can have one after another , it &apos;s very unlikely that this would lead to a living cell . .
so we decided that the only way to move forward is this chromosome actually synthesizing what allows us to varify the individual components and ask some of the
and so we started asking , can we start a chromosome synthetic ? ? ti@@
does it allow the chemistry to make these really big molecules that never happened before ?
and , if we can do that , we can start the chromosome
a chromosome is so far off , just a piece of virtual material . . .
our steps at the digitist of life were exponential . . . . our
our ability to write genetic code has been very slow , but we &apos;ve yet prosecuted , and our final point would now put in an exponential curve . .
we started out 15 years ago . .
for a number of years , it was starting to start with a bioethical review , before we did the first experiments
it turns out that dna synthesization is very difficult .
there are tens of thousands of machines around the world that can make small pieces of dna , 30 to 50 letters long but it &apos;s a degenerative process that &apos;s the longer you make a piece , the more errors can come . the more
so we had to develop a new method that we put these little pieces together and have the mistakes corrected .
this was our first try , starting with digital information , the phi phi x 174 . in 174
it &apos;s a little virus that kills bacteria .
we made small pieces , made a error correcter , and we had a dna molecule from about 5,000 letters .
the exciting stage came when we took this piece of chemistry and gave it into a bacterium , and the bacteria began to read the genetic code and made it viral-particles . .
the viral particles were released then by the cells , and they came back and kill e. coli .
recently , i &apos;ve been talking to the oil industry , and they said that they were doing
they laughed more than her . .
this is how we think this is a situation in the software actually can build your hardware in a biological system . .
but we wanted to go far further . we wanted to build a whole bacterial chromosome , and it has more than 580,000 letters of code . so , we thought we &apos;d build it in cassets at the size of the virus that we could measure the size of the cassette cassette , to understand what the individual component
design when is we the first key sequen, ced and the if genome you in start 199with 5 digital , information the in erthe ror
computer rate , was these at digital a information given really $ has 10,000 to pair be of a pamisirs er. able . .
we found out of sentiment , 30 errors , and if we had used the original sequence wouldn &apos;t have been possible . . . . . .
part of design is to create pieces that are 50 letters long , and overlap with other 50-letter steps to build down smaller sub-units so that they fit together . . . .
we have unique elements here . .
you may have heard that we have watersign built . .
think about it : we have a 4-letter code : a , c , g and t. .
so , the triplets of these letters -- these letters coverage about 20 amino acids , and there &apos;s a single purpose for each of these amino aci@@
so we can use the genetic code to write our words , phrase , thoughts .
we only signed up . . . .
some people were disappointed that it was no poetry .
we &apos;ve built the pieces so that we could just break them into enzymes , and there are enzymes that repair them and put it together
and we &apos;ve started to make pieces , starting with gaps , the fifths to 17 , and put these together around 24,000 letters , put it together , to get up to about 22,000 .
in every single step , we have extracted these pieces in the over-stop , so we could sequence them , because we tried to create a very robust process that will see in one minute .
we tried to get to the point of automation . .
so , this looks like a basketball plaster . .
if we get to these really big pieces -- with 100,000 base pairs -- these aren &apos;t going to be growing in e. coli , and it &apos;s going to be overwhelmed , and it &apos;s so far that all the ways we developed modern
we knew about a mechanism of a mechanism that biology uses to fix dna that can allow for the kinds of pieces of dna to fit
here &apos;s an example of one . there is one organism called deinococcus radiodurans at the end of radiation . . .
you see in the upper field that his chromosome just falls apart . . .
12 to 24 hours later , it &apos;s been reveled as it was . in the way
we have thousands of organisms that can do this .
these organisms can be totally burnt , they can even live in the vacuum .
i &apos;m absolutely sure that life will exist in space and move around aquatic conditions . . . .
in fact , nasa has shown it &apos;s out there . . .
here &apos;s a gesture of the molecule that we created by using these processes -- in fact , we &apos;ve been using a lot of bree-plus , which is the right design of the pieces we &apos;ve missed
this is not a direct microscope , it &apos;s a rain-regulated microscope . .
it &apos;s such a big molecule that we can actually see it with the light microscope
these are footage of six seconds . footage .
that &apos;s the publication we &apos;ve just done recently . . .
that &apos;s over 580,000 letters of geneticism , and it &apos;s the largest molecule with its cognitive structure ever created by people
it has a molecular weight of over 300 million
if we print it with a printer of 10 and without insurgency , it would take 142 pages , just to print these genetic code
how do we start a chromosome ? how do we start it ? activating it ?
obviously , it &apos;s very simple with a virus , and it &apos;s much more complicated to deal with bacteria
it &apos;s just easier to do it in eukaryonates that we &apos;re doing : just get the nucleus out and gives another water into it , and that &apos;s exactly what you all heard about cloning . .
when you &apos;re archaebacterious , the chromosome is in the cell , but only recently , we &apos;ve shown that you can take a complete transplant of a chromosome from one cell to another , and that activ@@
we were cleaning out the chromosome of a microcanic species , and roughly , these two are as far apart as humans and mice . and we gave some extra genes to help them get this chromosome . we were using enzymes around all proteins , and it was very amazing than we were giving it into a cell -- and they &apos;re going to have our very extensive graphic here . . in this
the new chromosome went into the cell .
we actually thought that this is the end , but we tried to get a little further on this process . . . .
this is the main mechanism of evolution here . here
we find all sorts of species here that had a second chromosome or a third of any of where , every time , thousands of people , are adding to one species to one
so people who think evolution is as an gene that &apos;s changing a lot of biology has a lot of biology missed
there are enzymes that are called the restriction enzymes that actually digest
the chromosome that was in the cell &apos;s cell , the chromosome , which we &apos;ve embedded .
it was exposed to the cell , and recognized the other chromosome material , and we ended up having a cell with a new chromosome . . . .
it was blue because of the genes that we had constrained
and after a very short time , it was lost all the characteristics of species and returning completely into a new species based on the new software that we &apos;ve given in the cell . .
and all the proteins changed the membranes of the membranes , when we read the genetic code , it was exactly what we transferred
it may sound like the genomic alchima sound , but we can do things quite dramatically . , we can change things quite dramatically
now i &apos;m arguing this is not the progenis -- that &apos;s in 3.5 billion years of evolution . evolution is
and i argued that perhaps we can create a new kind of cambrian explosion where there could be massive new armal education based on this digital design . . .
why should we do that
i think it &apos;s quite obvious in terms of what we need . .
we &apos;re about six and a half to nine billion people in the next 40 years . . .
to put it in my context : i was born in 1946 . born
today , three people on the planet have since now since in 1946 , in 1946 , it will be four . four years . .
we have trouble with food , with fresh and clean water , medicine , fuel for 6.5 billion people . . .
it will be a challenge that for 9 / 7 . . .
we need about five billion tons of coal , 30-plus billion slight oil . that &apos;s a hundred million beads a day . . .
when we think about biological processes , or any process to replace that , it will be a huge challenge . , it will
then , of course , there &apos;s the entire carbon from that material that &apos;s landed in the atmosphere
so , we have , from our discoveries , from our discoveries of about 20 million genes , and i want to believe that those are the design components of the future .
electronics dump had a dozen components , and look at the diversity that we &apos;ve come from . . .
we &apos;re going to see the limits of biological reality and of those of ourselves
we have technologies that have this fast synthesizing methodology to do that what we call combinatoral genetics . .
we have the ability to build a big robot that can make millions of chromosomes a day . .
if you can imagine that 20 million different genes , or those processes to optimize , to make the exact , to make the new vaccine , we can change more molecular biology than the last 20 years . science . science . science . science . science .
and it &apos;s just times selection . we can select life capability , production of chemicals or fuel production and so on . .
this is a picture of actual design software that we &apos;re working with , actually , that you can actually sit down and design new species on the computer . image
you know , we don &apos;t necessarily know how it &apos;s going to look , and we know exactly what it is that we know
we &apos;re now focusing on fuel in the fourth generation .
you saw the maize recently to ethanol , just a bad experiment . .
we have drilline fuel in the two-- and third generation that will come out and get a relatively quickly out of the higher sugar value , like octan , different kinds of butanol . .
but , as we think , the only way we think biology makes a powerful impact without any of the time in food or the limitation of their availability is going to have to have co2 as exposure , and therefore we &apos;re working on cells that are
and we think that we &apos;re going to be the greenfuels of the fourth generation , and
sunlight and co2 are a method .
but in our discovery of the world , we have all sorts of different ways . .
this is an organism we described in 1996 .
he lives in the deep sea , about one-and-a-half miles deep , near almost cooking temperatures . . in
it turns carbon into methane , under the use of hydrogen , for energy
we &apos;re going to study whether we can use storage of growing cells that could easily be used to measure , convert co2 to push this process . . .
within a short period of time , we believe we could be able to solve one of the fundamental questions of life . in a short time of time .
you know , we really -- moderate astows like the replacement of the petrochemical industry -- exactly . if you can &apos;t do that at ted , where else ? a major source of energy . energy .
but that &apos;s what we &apos;re doing now is to decompose the same approaching to the development of vaccines .
they saw it with the flu this year , we &apos;re always off and we &apos;re always off , and we have a dollar to stop in the right
i think that this can be changed by putting recommended vaccines in the window .
that &apos;s how the future might look , to be the evolution of the world with changes , can be accelerated with synthetic bacteria , archaen , and potentially eukaryonates . .
we are removed from humans to improve human years , and our goal is that we have an opportunity to survive long enough to possibly do that . thank you . . .
in the last ted conference , i was a introduction to the lhc
and i was talking to you , to tell you what the machine works . . .
so it &apos;s so far . and for those who didn &apos;t come there at the time , the lhc is the biggest scientific experiment ever devoted -- 27 kilometers in
his job is to create the conditions which existed less than a billionth of a second from the universe -- up to 600 million times within a second . up
it &apos;s just breathtaking . .
this is the machine below geneva .
we take images of these mini-big bang in detectors . .
this is me , i &apos;m in this . he &apos;s called the atlas simulator -- 44 meters in diameter , 22 meters in diam@@
here &apos;s a spectacular image of the atlas in the construction of the construction so
and last year , the machine came out for the first time . . . .
and this picture was taken by atlas .
it caused immense jubel in the control room .
it &apos;s a picture of the first ray of arrine that letted the lhc down the lhc , then intention with a part of the lhc collided to leave a rain of particles on
in other words , when we saw this picture on the 10th of september , we knew that this machine was working , which is a big
i don &apos;t know if this was the biggest forcing , or that , as somebody went to the google side , and found the front page .
it means we &apos;ve reached a cultural impact against the scientific im@@
about a week later , there was a problem with the machine that was here with these wires -- this golden wires here .
these vaud enabled 13-plus traffic lights when the machine goes to high-@@
well , the engineers , you &apos;ll see them , and say , &quot; no , don &apos;t you . these are little wires . &quot;
you can do that because when you cool them very far , they become called superconductors . .
at minus 271 degrees , colder than the space between the space can make this tension . . .
in one of the connections , between the nine-thousand magts in the lhc , there was a defect attached
and so , the dragged dragged and a half thousand traffic encounters suddenly encounter electr@@
this was the result .
now , all of this is more amazing when you imagine that the magnets have been over 20 tons of magnitude and shif@@
we actually damaged about 50 of the magnets .
and they had to remove what we did . .
we &apos;ve got them reinforced , repair them .
they &apos;re all on their way back . . .
by the end march , the lhc will be able to make it work again
we &apos;re going to turn it on , and expect for first data to be able to collect , in june , or july , and then we put our journey on trying to figure out
now , of course , in a form of disputes such as accidents of accidents , the debate about the value of science and engineering is to have such a jo@@
i think the fact that it &apos;s so hard to reach the fact that we reach beyond our limits , is the value of things like the lhc .
i &apos;m going to leave my final words of english in english . humphrey davy , who i think is , when he defactured the useless experiments of his teaching defense , his apprentice was michael faraday , and that &apos;s a tale of conquering the disparate experiments of the human mind , that our science shows up to be a mystery of nature , and there &apos;s no new worlds to conquer . &quot; &quot; is so dangerous to the developing world of
thank you .
i &apos;m a writer .
writing books is my job , but of course it &apos;s more than that . than
it and &apos;s i also don my &apos;t big expect , that lito
felchange ong . love and . fascination . .
but shortly , shorter thing in my life and my career has done that , which has led me completely to rethink my relationship to this work . . . . . .
this particular event was that i wrote a book recently -- a biography called the vnae , pray , love -- that , they were , unlike all my previous books for whatever reason , for whatever reason , and a large mega-event , became an international fine-discipline thing . a big mega-@@
the result is , no matter where i come from , i &apos;ll be a bound . . .
seriously -- the underturn . a bit .
for example , they &apos;re worried about me and they say , &quot; don &apos;t you scare you ? never mind you to get this success ? &quot; ? that &apos;s not going to be
don &apos;t you be afraid to write on their entire life , never again ? eleven ? nording a book that could be interested in the world again ? ? . . .
okay , so that &apos;s really courage . .
but it would be worse if i didn &apos;t remember that i was going to be a teenager about 20 years ago when i first told you that i wanted to be a writer with the same kind of fear of fear . a confrontation was confronted with the same kind of
people said , you know , you don &apos;t have any fear , you &apos;ve never succeeded .
do you worry you &apos;re not afraid to kill the hug of a rejection
you &apos;re not afraid you went through this mandate , and you &apos;re going to see your life , and you &apos;re going to die there , and you &apos;re going to die on a juntn box -- your mouth with the bitter awer ? . .
that &apos;s something , you know .
the answer -- the short answer to all of these questions is : do yes .
yeah , i &apos;m afraid of all these things .
and i &apos;d always . .
and i was anxous to a couple more things ago that nobody would ever remind . .
like algae -- and others scary things . scary .
but , when it &apos;s writing about writing , i &apos;ve just been looking at it , and i &apos;m like , why ? ? . .
is that reasonable ? ?
is it logical that someone should be expected to do the work that he &apos;s making the work that he feels ? ? ?
and what about the creative enterprise that we &apos;re going to do with the creative enterprise , you &apos;re unsafe about the interests of the world -- in a way that &apos;s not functional to others ?
my father , for example , was chemist , and i can &apos;t speak in his 40 years as a chemist he was asked to be afraid to be chemists . . he was asked to be
with your chemist bloody , john -- how are you going to do
it just didn &apos;t come out of you , you know ?
but to be fair -- the mancohol group group have not received the reputation of alcohol addicts , people who are getting into risk with alcohol addicts .
we seem to have this kind of call , but not only the writers , but the creative all of the genres , it seems to have this reputation , mentally unstable . . . .
all they have to do is to look at the bitter deaths of really great minds just from the twentieth century that young and often died from their hand . . . .
and even the ones that didn &apos;t actually give people the suicides to really be empted by their talents . .
norman mailer before his death in his last interview : double one of my books had a little bit further . . . .
and an extraordinary statement that you can do about this kind of life .
but we don &apos;t even miss someone &apos;s saying , because we know this kind of statement for as long ago , we &apos;ve known the notion so long and we accept it as an innovative accept that creativity and suffering , of course , is related to the counus , and that art -- always leads to the sea equal . .
the question i want to make today is : is this an idea of you complete ? ? ?
feel with it ? because at a centimeter , i don &apos;t really feel like i feel with this notion of this notion of this notion of view , i don &apos;t really
i find them off . . .
and i find them dangerous , and i don &apos;t want to see them being taken over the next century . . .
i think it &apos;s better if we &apos;re going to live our big creative asti@@
and i know , i definitely know that -- in my situation , very dangerous to start , to start the crew of the guesses , to sort of credible in the way i &apos;m in my career . in my career . in my
this is -- look , i &apos;m pretty young . i &apos;m only about 40 years old . . . .
i may have another 30 hours of unworking years . .
and it &apos;s most likely that everything i &apos;m going to write from now is the world &apos;s work , which is what &apos;s been done after the deforestation of my last book , right ? ? ?
i &apos;m saying it &apos;s fair because we &apos;re all sort of friends here -- it &apos;s very likely that my biggest success is behind me . . . . .
oh , jesus , what kind of thought !
these are the kind of thoughts that could get somebody to get to get nine o &apos;clock in the morning , drink gin . and i don &apos;t want to . . .
i would rather have to do this work that i love . .
so the question is : how ? ?
and after some time of reflecting , i think , to continue to write features , to design a kind of shooting psychological construct . . . . . . . . . .
and i have to figure out a way to have a way to have a safe distance to keep in a distance to myself and my very natural plummeting of how reaction will be to the slide . . .
so as i &apos;ve looked at the research models for models in the last year , i &apos;ve been looking for the past , and i &apos;ve been trying to find other societies to see if they might have been better or more sensible ideas about how to help creative interventions , with the emotional risks associated with creativity . risks of creativity . with the emotional
this is a quest that made me ancient greece , and the old ro@@
please follow me , because the circle will be close to the end .
but in ancient greece , people have not believed that creativity comes from people , okay ? ? . . . .
they believed that creativity was a kind of divine diaper mind that comes from a distant , unknown source to people , from unexplainable , unknown reasons .
the greeks called these govine dity geigers of creativity arose . . . . .
from socrates , he was known to believe he had a dot that was on top of his distance . .
the robes had the same idea , called this kind of body lofty , a genius of this kind of body
that &apos;s great . the roman didn &apos;t really think that a genius was a particularly smart individual . .
they believed that a genius was this kind of magic of diveness , which was thought that literally he lives into the walls of an artist -- about almost like parlover , the house of house-school -- that would be the shock and the artist in work kind of seemed invisible to form , and the result of the work would be kind of invisible
that &apos;s brilliant -- there &apos;s the distance , which i talked about -- the psychological construct that you &apos;ve talked about -- the psychological construct that protects you
and everybody knew it worked so well , right ? ?
the artist of aging was protected , like , like , too much scales , like , for example , too much .
if your work was , you know , you didn &apos;t look at you all in the watch , everybody knew you had this dousing genius that helped you .
if your work was flying -- not entirely your fault , right ? ?
everybody knew your genius was a bit of a crap
so people thought of creativity for a long time . . . . .
and then the renaissance , and everything changed . we had this big idea , and this big idea was : let &apos;s put the human personnel at the center of the universe -- of all gods and mysteries , and there is no room to think of mytic creatures that are coming from the divine .
it &apos;s the beginning of rational humanism and people started to believe that creativity came from just any individual . . . .
for the first time in history you &apos;re going to hear people this or spoken artists , but instead of having a genius . . . .
i have to tell you , i think that was a big mistake . .
you know ? i think that a single person to allow him to think he or she &apos;s like the bud , how the bump and the essence and the power of all divine , creative , unknown , unknown mystery is a little too much responsibility for them to have a fractious , human psychology . . . &amp; lt ; em &amp; gt ;
it &apos;s like asking someone to shrink the sun .
and this defines all of the disposable , and it produces all of those unable expectations to the success .
i think that this achievements of success our artists have decreased the past 500 years .
and , if that &apos;s true -- and i think it &apos;s true -- is the question . . .
can we change it ? ,
maybe an es-opening understanding of the relationship between people and the mystery of creativity . .
maybe not .
maybe we can not just eradicate the thoughtfully of 500 years of rational humanism in an 18@@
and there &apos;s certainly people in this audience who are really focused on the scientific doubt that they would be thinking about -- basically , solid people follow and featenist on their projects and so on . . .
i but &apos;m the probably question not i going want to to take throw you on all is to
: that why journey not . ? . ? . . .
why not think about it ? not so
because a it process makes that a -- lot as of everyone sense knows how , everything who i &apos;s &apos;ve ever heard trying about to when do it something was -- about so expla@@
in ining other the words absolutely , crazy everybody frehere ely -- of not creative always process gu. ilty . . . . . .
in fact , sometimes it can feel like parallel . . .
i had recently met a meeting that i met the extraordinary american poetry ruth stone , who &apos;s now about 90 , but only her life was diminaged , but she was told her whole life , she was very much in the fields , she said she can feel her and hear her poem about the landscape . she said she can feel her and hear her poem about the landscape . she
she said it was like a rail train from air . .
it &apos;s going to roll across the land . . . .
she felt when it came , because it would take the earth under its feet to the be@@
she knew she could do that in that moment , and that was -- in her words , race like the devil crashes . like the
they ran as the devil &apos;s heck to the house while they were pursued by this poem , and it was really clear that they had to go fast enough to a piece of paper and a pencil to put it in the chase , and they could hit on the sheet . .
and other paint was not fast enough . she ran and ran and ran , but she didn &apos;t get the house , and the poem was rolling through her , and she was able to do it , and she said , look for a different poet . . . . . . . . .
and then there were these moments -- i never forget -- i never forget it -- she said that there was moments where they actually made it . . .
so she &apos;s running to the house and looking after paper and the poem &apos;s going through her and she &apos;s grabbing a pen in it just by walking through her and then -- she said -- she said -- was it like to pick up your other hand and get it to stick . it was like to
she came up with the poem , and he pulled it back into her body , and she took it on the sheet of paper . .
these are the opportunities in these opportunities , and intact on paper -- but backwards from the last word for the first word . for the first word .
when i heard that , i thought that this was unlocked -- that &apos;s exactly as my creative process completed . .
this is not like my creative process -- i &apos;m not the channel . . .
i &apos;m a mowering . i have to work on work , i have to stand up every day and sweat , and i &apos;m really unpleasant . &apos;ungelillar . my calm .
but even in my mouth , i sometimes have this thing blown up . . . . . .
and i guess many of you have done this . .
i even had any ideas or i had ideas coming through by a source that i really cannot be able to identify . .
what is this thing ? one
and how do we deal with it without having a relationship in relation to that , and we actually have a mental health experience in the way that we &apos;re passionate about it ?
for me , the best example of how you can do this can be the musician tom waits . i had been allowed to interview it a few years ago . a magazine . . .
we talked about this topic . and you know what ? most of his life was tom that was the embodied modern artist who was trying to commit this uncontrolled creative impulse that was in it , to complain this uncontrolled creative impulse that was in it , to be
but then he became older and quiet . he told me that one day he went on a highway in los angeles , and all this changed all around him . . . .
he went at high speed when he suddenly heard a little fragment of a tune , which is often a little fragment in inspiration , and he wants to have it . she &apos;s great . he &apos;s levity . he &apos;s going to have to do it . glorious , but he can &apos;t make it . he did it . he s@@
he doesn &apos;t have a piece of paper , he doesn &apos;t have a pen , he doesn &apos;t have a cassette record . .
so he starts to get up this old scaling up in him , like i &apos;m going to lose this thing and i &apos;ll be followed by this song at eternal . . . . . .
i &apos;m not good enough , i &apos;m not making it . .
but instead of getting in panic , he just heard .
he finished all the thoughts , and she did something completely new . .
he just looked up in the sky , and he said , &quot; excuse me , can &apos;t you see that i &apos;m driving ? &quot;
and if i look at it like i was just going to put up a
if you really want to exist , come on to be a more guar-generating moment when i can take care of
now , if you &apos;re not , you know ,
go his and whole see job leonprocess ard has
cochanged hen . . . .
not the work itself . it was often the dark itself , and it was still dark as
but the process and the heavy scaling that surrounded it was lifted up when he took the genius , where he took the genius , where he was sort of coming back , and he realized that there &apos;s no inheritance , cross-like thing . . . . . .
it could give a really crumpling , wonder , bizarre collaboration , a kind of conversation between tom and strangeny , outgoing , external thing that was
when i heard this story , it also kind of changed a little bit the way i worked and it &apos;s been taking me . .
and this idea , when i was in the middle of a skart of giggling giy , love was center , and i fell into one of those guts of the second , which we all fall when we work on something and it doesn &apos;t work . you start to think that it &apos;s going to be a disaster . that &apos;s going to be the worst book ever written . the
not only bad , but of all time . .
i started thinking , i should just get this on a project .
but then i remembered tom in the deep sky , and i tried to do it
so i lift my view from the manuscript and i talked to my comments in the next corner of the room . . .
i spoke to you , &quot; listen , you , you , you , you , you , you know , if that book is not brilly , it &apos;s not completely my
because you see i &apos;m doing everything i have , invest . i don &apos;t have more than that . than that .
so if you want to have better , you have to delay up and insert your percentage of the reference .
okay . but , if you don &apos;t do that , you know what the hell of it . .
i &apos;m still going to write on it , because that &apos;s my job
and i want to give you a protocol that i was here today for my part of the jobs . .
because ... by the end , it &apos;s like the follows , and it &apos;s been a centuries ago , in northern africa , people were gathering in the moon of molds with saint dancers and music that had been dispersed for hours -- until the morning .
these solid solid were an incredibly great thing , because the dancers were professional , and they were fantastic .
but again , very rare , something very rare happened . one of the creators was actually transnational . . . . . .
and i know that you know what i mean , because i know you &apos;ve all seen this kind of a performance of performance . . . .
it was like the time the time was still standing and the dancers were running around by a pilla , and he did nothing different than he ever did -- 1,000 nights before . but everything was perpetuating .
and all of a sudden he couldn &apos;t get into human-human . a human-@@
it was pointed out by the inside , and then from the bottom , and all the lights started by a divine fire
when this happened then , people knew what this was . they called it at their name . . . . .
they put the hands together , and they started singing : the alallah , allah , allah , god , god , god . , god
that &apos;s god , you know ?
interesting tedhistoric footnote : when the audience got into the south spain , they took this use of action : the action changed over the centuries of adaalary , allah , allah , who is still going to be fighting and flattening and flattening and guput . . &amp; lt ; em &amp; gt ; &amp; lt ; / em &amp; gt ;
when an actors in spain , in a little impossible , do something magical did : squeelah , olé , olé , allah , great , bravo danger , there is , &quot; a volatile look on god . &quot; .
and that &apos;s great , because we need that .
but the tricky part followed by the morning when dancers themselves wake themselves and realizes that at 11 o &apos;clock , there &apos;s 11 o &apos;clock at a tutitude -- and he &apos;s no longer in it for a five-minute of god .
it &apos;s just an aging mortality rate , and maybe it will never rise to the heights . . too ever . . .
and maybe someone will ever call god &apos;s name , if he &apos;s root , but what do he do with the rest of his life ? ?
that &apos;s hard .
this is one of the most painful corrections of a creative life . . .
but maybe it doesn &apos;t have to be quite as much as pin if you didn &apos;t believe the most amazing aspects of your existence . , that the most extraordinary aspects of their existence are brought
if you just believe that you &apos;re a wheelman -- from an unbelievable source to a reiture-type of their life , which is passed on to someone else , if you &apos;re done . . .
if we start thinking about this , all of this changes . . . .
so i started thinking , and so i &apos;m certainly in the last few months , as i was working on the book that will soon appear -- than the dangerous , frightening , incredibly expected follown of my descendants . . . . scary . . .
what i have to tell myself when i &apos;m going to be crazy about this is , don &apos;t i fear . . . .
don &apos;t be discouraged .
just make your job .
whether it &apos;s still for your contribution , whatever he is to be .
if your job is the dance , dance . .
if dumb divine divine , which is the side of that , decide to be able to show you your weightness for a moment , then consume , then tanolé ! . . .
and if you don &apos;t , dancing your dance .
and then brené ! tough for yourself in all of this .
i believe in and i feel like we should teach . .
tolé ! nurturing for yourself , just for you to have the bare human love and your own meaning , for you . you have to do it
thank thank you you
. .
olé !
last year , i showed these two slides to illustrate that the arctic ice capice , which had close to three million years , had shrink to 40 percent of america in the bottom , in 40 percent . a few .
but it doesn &apos;t push strong enough to look at this particular problem because it doesn &apos;t show the thick of the ice .
in a sense , the arctic ice caps have the heart of our global global global system . .
it grows in the winter and shrinking in
the next slide i &apos;m going to show you is a time-lapse recording of what happened in the last 25
the permanent ice is covered with red . ice
you can see , it &apos;s headed on the dark blue , this is the annual ice in winter , and it &apos;s shrinking
what we call permanence , five years old , is almost like blood that &apos;s out of the body here . . out of the body here .
in 25 years , it &apos;s gone to here . here to
this is a problem , because the other population of warming is to look at the frozen ocean to have a big amount of frozen carbon , which , if you look at the microbes to methane . . . from
compared to the full amount of climate shifts in the atmosphere , could double that figure actually double when we cross this critically important point
today , in some of the lakes of lakes , in alaska methane from itself from the water . from the
professor katey walter at the university of alaska is a new set of work on another flat in the last winter last winter .
wow ! !
you &apos;re doing fine . the question is , how is it going
and one reason is , this vast warmtop warehouse warh is a greenland from
this is a annual dial river .
but the volume of volume is a lot bigger than
this is the canuss-suaceq river in southwest greenland .
if you want to know what marine sea levels melt down in land is sweet up here . sweet . sweelands
these rivers get rapid . .
on the other end of the planet , antarctica , the biggest ice mass on the planet .
and last month , researchers reported that the entire continent has a negative ice foot@@
and the west antarctica , which is dipped up on underwater territory , is particularly very active in melting .
this is 20 foot of ocean level , as is greenland . as green@@
in the himalayas , the third largest ice mass , you see there &apos;s a new lakes in the upper world a few years ago . .
40 percent of all the people in the world get half of their drinkless water . . .
in the anger , this glaciers is the water source for this city . . .
the amount of water has increased .
but if they settseed , most of the drinking water will fall away
in california , a 60-percent reduction in the snow ceiling of the sierra .
this is the storage of the memory .
and the predictions of how they &apos;ve read them are serious .
these exrothing in the world leads to a dramatic increase in fire .
and the catastrophe all around the world has never been able to extend exclusively . .
four times what &apos;s in the previous 30 years , like in the previous 75@@
this is an entirely unsustainable development pattern .
if you look at this in the historical correlation , you can see what it is
in the past five years , we &apos;ve been able to produce 70 million tons of co2 dioxide , 25 million tons every day into the oceans
look at the area of east pacific , from the american continent , western and partly , in the state of subcontinent , where there is a dramatic decline in oxygen in the ocean . . in the ocean .
the biggest single factor for global warming , besides deforestation , which is 20 percent , is the burning of fossil fuels . .
oil is a problem , and coal is the most large problem .
the united states is one of the largest pollutors , along with china . with china
and the proposal was to build a lot of other coal-fights
but we &apos;re starting to see a change . .
here are the ones that have been caught up in the last few years , with some green alternatives that were proposed
but it &apos;s a political situation in our country .
and coal beams and oil beams have spent a quarter billion last calendar year to advertise clean coal , which is already a contradiction in itself . . .
this is a picture reminded me of something
in christmas around , at me at home in tennessee , one billion pounds of koalescent lamb . .
it seemed to be in the news .
this is in our country of the second largest waste of america . in the americ@@
this happened about christmas .
one of the commercials of the koyeindub was this
frosty , the new man is a pleasure , happy burden . .
it &apos;s in chips and pieces of america in america , and it &apos;s helping our
frosty , the carbon man is clean every day .
it &apos;s affordable , and it &apos;s worthwhile , and workers are re@@
this the is most the powerful source temof pomost yer coal is in the
west head virgof inimasa sey . rock . . .
let me tell you a very clear one : al gore , nancy roosi , harry reid , you don &apos;t know what you &apos;re talking about
so the alliance for climate protection has two campaigns in life .
this is one , a part of it . . .
in coalergy , climate change is a serious threat to our business . .
so we set it to the top line , spending a significant amount of money to get a commercial to the road , to get the truth about coal . . .
in fact , coal is not dirty . .
we think it &apos;s clean -- and it smells even well .
so don &apos;t worry about climate change .
leave that quiet to us .
clean coal , they &apos;ve heard a lot of it .
so let &apos;s go a tour of this modern , clean carbon factory . . .
fantastic ! this machine is pretty loud . .
but it &apos;s the sound of clean carbs .
and yet , of course , burning from the coal is one of the main reasons for global warming , which is remarkable , clean car@@
look at it right now , this is the sounder carbon technology .
finally , the positive alternative with our economic challenge and our challenge is national security . .
america is in a crisis that is the economy , the national security , the climate
the red thread that all of these together is our dependence on carbon emissions like dirty coal and foreign oil . from
but now there &apos;s a bold , new solution to get us out of this sort of un@@
the u.s. with 100 percent clean electricity has new , within the next
a plan , the united states , to get back to work , to make ourselves sure and help stop global warming
finally , a solution that &apos;s large enough to solve our problems .
refresh america . find more . .
this is the last . .
it &apos;s about a new consumer policy .
one of the fastest ways to remove our dependence on old , dirty fuels that make our world .
the future here is . wind , sun , and a new energy system .
new investments , to create good jobs .
the american republic . it &apos;s time to accept reality .
there &apos;s an old african proverb : &quot; if you want to be a little bit of wish . .
if you want to get a little , go get , get
we need to get past , and we need
thank you . .
i want to start by asking you to start thinking about your childhood , and when you were playing with the metal pla@@
while they realized how to exrange their hands and attack the cute , they actually learned to think and start to think , and try and solve problems with understanding and understanding the space and understanding the space .
spatial thinking is deeply connected to the way we understand a lot of our environment . .
as a computer scientist , inspired by the kind of interactions with real objects -- together with my creator patti and my fellow steve jeti kalanithi , i started wondering what if we were using computers that instead of a mouse curtit that takes like a digital fingertip that would move like a digital fingertip on a flat surface of a flat surface ... what if we could intervene with both hands and make data physically and could attack them how we want it to be ? person@@
and this question was so profound that we decided to have an answer , and we evolved , and we have
in short , a sideable is an interactive computer at the size of a biska . . .
you can move with your hand , you can see each other , you can detect your movements and you can have a screen of dycony . . a
more importantly , are they physically , therefore , that you can use it to be made just by the exclusion of your
and the sideables are an example of a new generation of tools to manipulate digital data .
and if these tools become more physical and they develop awareness for their movements , and identify each other , and the enemies of our approaches to them , then we can start to study new and entertaining interaction species
i &apos;m going to start with some simple examples . .
this side-bar can refigure to the video recrenpered , and when i put it in a kip , the video will go forward , if i go back in the other direction , it &apos;ll go backwards
and these interactive portraits take place in another . .
so if i place her , it makes you feel interested . .
if you &apos;re surrounded by inventary , you &apos;ll notice that , you can get a little nervous
and you &apos;re feeling like your movement and the tendency .
and in one this interesting case result , of we inter&apos;ve actions been that conwe tastarted ined to three recognize siwas blthat ings we as could a apply color everyday pogestts ures ,
on and data i , can like use color them , to to cast dispaint ruin pt the it middle with of liquid the numbers middle . , where . they &apos;re . mixed
we can break it back , we can shine a little bit . .
there are also some neat opportunities in education like languages , mathematics or lokgames , where we give people the possibility of fast sketches and want to see the results immediately .
here i am -- this is a fibonacci series that i put in a simple balance program . . .
this is a game with words that are kind of mixing of scrabble and boggle . . .
basically you get each rags to random random letters , and as you &apos;re trying to form words , they &apos;re checking up a dictionary . . . .
then , after about 30 seconds , again , it &apos;s been mixed and you &apos;ve got a new letter combining new opportunities and new opportunities
thank you .
and these are some of the kids who came to a media lab , and i could get them to try it and i got a video of it . video .
they really loved it .
and one more interesting thing about this kind of applications is that you don &apos;t have to give them a lot of instructions .
all you have to say is &quot; words &quot; and you know exactly what to do . . ,
here &apos;s another couple of people who test it .
this is our youngest aunt till down right now . . .
it turns out he was just going to just just stack up . . .
so for him , they were just fluctu@@
this is an interactive trickfilter maneuvering .
we wanted to develop an educational tool for speech . .
this is felix . . .
he can bring new characters into the scene by lifting the sible bar from the table that this character shows . . . .
this is him going up the sun . .
the sun goes on . .
now he &apos;s pulling a tractor into the scene .
the orange tractor .
good work ! yes !
by the way , using the sitches and she &apos;s going to link them side , and he can intersect the characters
his own story . invent .
hello !
it &apos;s a story with obvious end , and he can decide how to evolve . .
flying cats . .
the last example i have today showing it to show is a musical sequence cer for live performances that we &apos;ve developed recently , and in the sitgy , as a no-brainer , how leadership fade
each has four different variations ; you can choose what you want to use . . .
and you can put these notes into the sequence that you can put into any pattern . . . .
and you restore them by just holding a ton of a potable way to sequence a little sequence . a
there are effects that you can transform live , like in reverse and filter .
you connect it with a particular note and it tends to hire it . .
and then more over-super-super-intended like pace and numbers that you &apos;re doing
so let &apos;s see . .
we start in the world &apos;s leaders in two sequencing , and put them in a line , expand it , expand and add a little more of the
now now i i &apos;m &apos;m going going to to add do
a some bstuff ass here . . . .
and i &apos;m now drawing the filters with the gas , so i can tap the effect live .
i can accelerate the entire sequence , just by the way , the speed of the pace in one
and i &apos;m going to move the filters right away , and i &apos;m going to push
i can put the sequence up as you walk down .
i and don then &apos;t finally have , to i plan can them throw with all the the presequence ceoff ding by , going but to it the &apos;s right
improrate vby ating going ; to they the &apos;re left going . to be a able verse to bar bre. ed , . or shorthe
thank you .
so as you can see , my aymy is to develop new human-computer interfaces that just fit to the regular way our brains and bodies work .
and i &apos;ve had time to share with you some of the new design world , and some of the opportunities of what we &apos;re working on in our lab . . .
so the idea that i want to leave with you on the way is that we &apos;re on the verge of this new generation of profanity with digital media , bringing information into our world , which is the demanding
thank you . .
i &apos;m looking forward to talking to you guys .
yes , good afternoon .
i &apos;m happy to be there .
yeah , so , what is biohacking ?
i first have to get a little bit out , and that &apos;s biohacking right now with the modern
i &apos;m studying molecular biology and i &apos;ve just been studying the biohacking for a few years now , and i &apos;ve been out of this because i wanted to understand it , and particularly i was trying to understand it , what i learned in
so , that was my primary motivation .
so it was a curiosity , and i wanted to get closer to the matter , like this .
i think that biology in general is now , generally , that biotech , it &apos;s all that you &apos;re counting to synthetic biology and so on .
extremely important is now extremely important , and much , much more important will be going to be in the future
there are so intriguing things like this all electrical plants on the folds . . .
there &apos;s craig venter in the u.s. who is trying to make biofur , so it &apos;s gas from algae . .
and then , under that , there is also some stuff that has come to be completely in life , which most people don &apos;t realize , is waepored for , like , waep-up enzymes that allow us to wash up with 40 degrees , are also genetic optimizers
and the list is one endless continuing
and so , from interest to this technology , i just went around the road . a little bit .
now , what &apos;s now hacking
most people know most of the people that are out of the software field . .
computers hacking , and it &apos;s going to be in the media so , yeah , the hackers break in some and sound , and so
that and &apos;s that kind software of has sad started for , hain cking the mrsei vent, h because , it 8&apos;s 0s not , true and that
the what seactually ventit i&apos;s ans actually , starting and to it do &apos;s , also and the what internet &apos;s . actually behind . . .
and it &apos;s about a playful , creative , original way , a problem . a problem
and the problem , that &apos;s not just a technical problem , it can also be a social issue , which is to have a problem of doing things , which simplify you , to make any problem , to establish a problem , and how can you do that better . . .
and it &apos;s been done , it &apos;s been done with software , but there &apos;s also a whole range of things that have electronics that are doing all kinds of things . , you know , there &apos;s a whole bunch of
and now , in terms of biology , and i want to take this metaphor that comes from synthetic biology , that biology is actually a information science , because , the d.c a code is an abstract code , which is , it &apos;s not quite the same as computers , because it &apos;s matter , so it &apos;s matter , so it &apos;s matter , so it
but it &apos;s also a code , and you can also program and also code and touch it , like , and that i found that i find incredibly fascinating , and that &apos;s where i just wanted to just go on a lot of a deeper
and that &apos;s actually been taken for 1,000 to eight , these networks .
there &apos;s hacktera dot org , which is primal from switzerland with europe and with a cooperation in india , but now both people and an active people around the world have now . . people around the world
these are that , actually , a more artistic entity , so there are many artists and philosophers and collaborates with scientists who have been dealing with these technologies , and asking questions , and process this creatively , there &apos;s a museum exhibition and yes , and it &apos;s
but it &apos;s all about finding such a loaner access to finding a playful process of a playful transformation .
and then there &apos;s do-it-yourself ending , which is the equivalent of the ca-it-yourself .
this they is &apos;re from a the little u.s. bit a more network technical , , which and is some actually business more along of there a , forthey um &apos;re
where asked you to &apos;re ask going , to yeah be , in they place &apos;ve where asked you questions &apos;re . going to news be . in place dem@@
and from these networks that made the whole popular deal , it &apos;s a scene that i want to do just a portrait of teaming
here children in , the old left , left all you kinds see of biopeople fugo elto s just , sit which around is , a they ha&apos;ve cker set space up , a so lab basically and a look kind at of what
school can , you kind do of when a these private protoschool col, s a . nonprofit . institution , . where everyone . can come . . as a these faciliprototy col, s where .
here &apos;s a group in indonesia on the left , home , national fiber , which is , quite a long time . . a lot . .
for a long time , these two networks . .
and that &apos;s in such an artistic aspect of biology , and , yes , electronically costene , and combining that to quite a bit like this
a group from killing arara , i met a while ago , who had a group of people who wanted to be giving out to the public , what they &apos;re learning in the university , and they &apos;ve made such on the street finance , and people are trying to explain what is in the city . ,
and i got up on the top of the picture in the middle of the medical museum with an exhibit on the subject in the medical museum . . . . .
and that is , yes , that &apos;s typically right , young people , but the only thing that actually holds up is this fascination of technology . . . .
and what you can do about it , and you can just go through the society with this and ask , &quot; okay , what do you know what you &apos;re going to do , you &apos;ve got an interest in bringing you this way ? &quot; you
so , o.k , to hack biology now , you have to
you need , of course , biological materials , and you need some tools , and
but , in particular , what you &apos;re looking at under a lab , which is kind of like the default machines , are sort of expensive , extremely expensive , just for professionals , educated academics with
and our approach was to say , &quot; k , that actually is not to do this . .
this is not necessarily , because every single coffee planting is actually a major technology than most of the lab devices , which is really like the most
and then , for example , with this premise , then you &apos;re trying to have brian degger in britain , so you &apos;ve taken a minimum print , so you &apos;ve taken a steam print , a heartprint , and you know , it &apos;s been grown , and it &apos;s been grown
so everyone who &apos;s been doing soup that he has been laying for too long , even did . . . .
i tried this in my lab to extend a little bit , and then i bought this as remotely using ebay , and made a little bit of the equivalent of the kind of equivalent , trying to do this kind of a father analysis , trying to do so that ,
now , this should not be a joke , but it &apos;s actually a joke . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
and here , in the image , you see the lab , in leadership , so that &apos;s such a charged garage , so that &apos;s such a charged garage
and this is biofucking , which is , in fact , mentioned hacker space , which is basically a kind of volkshof school in molecular biology . . . . . . . . . .
and so , you know , you can see , it &apos;s relatively relatively profound , so that &apos;s
but always , the approach of the approach is that it &apos;s just to be available and accessible . . . . . . . . . . . . .
the first project that we did as an international group of people , as we became so aware of ourselves , o.k
and then the do-it-yourself endeavor came from the founders , and he said o.k , we &apos;re now going to have to meet , even real meet , and then have two
and so , it was also about , yes , whoo.k , who are we , what do we want to share ? ? sharing . .
and what are our values and what are our target , our basis ? ? ? ?
and then there &apos;s a co-like type of copolice . .
and that was quite intuitive , so everyone has just like his wish , his and what moved him , excuse me .
and i think that &apos;s a very good code . . .
and then we have that one , and then we can &apos;t be on that , but that &apos;s what i think is quite good than all of the people are convinced of this . ,
and so we , even i tried think to we bring &apos;re that in back the into biothe haacadecker mic mrworld i , ,
but in it fact &apos;s , kind a of little not further so than concerned the there acade. mic world . . . .
yeah , what kind of projects are we doing this ? ?
a project that i did with the hacktera network in switzerland was that we wanted to do what we call a visual panent or optical pinket bastle . .
this is when you focus a laser beam on one in the room , you can catch little particles in the air or in the liquid , and then you &apos;re moving in that focus , so that &apos;s what a tractor beam principle basically works . . . a trapping principle .
it really works , it &apos;s done in the academic trial , and we thought , o.k , we may have taken the board , cut up , cut the lens , then you have a microscope that &apos;s going to be able to square around four-fold . in a microscope , you have a microscope , it &apos;s about
you see this at the bottom . there
and then we &apos;ve blocked a statue and a bug , and the burning the laser &apos;s cliker is just being put out there ,
and that &apos;s not been worked , but we &apos;ve learned a lot about this . .
so , another project that came out of the french group here , it was sliced , it &apos;s pretty cool .
and he &apos;s like , he &apos;s a kind of brain wave device , so e.e. g or something like that , so he worked with neurobiology , his nickname is sam neurohack . his nickname
so he &apos;s set up this helmet that &apos;s got this helmet , and in the cooperation with the
and then the visitors go in the space , sit on this chair , put this helmet up .
then , their brainwaves were measured , and depending on what they thought , or how they thought , are they different lights in the room . .
a pretty silly project . . .
another thing that &apos;s done in the united states that has to do with this dad &apos;s recederor is that the p.c.r , which is polymerr ,
so it &apos;s about cutting genes to being able to do the genes , to be able to produce it , to make it visible . .
so if i do that the profilers on the scene , then they go , they gather hairy , and then they go out there and then they go and do this kind of system , and then they can say , o.k , this haar is being heard of this
and the machines that do this , they &apos;re pretty expensive that they buy commercial , which is the cheapest , they go on a thousand euros
and that &apos;s not the hobbytan , but it &apos;s a really cool technology that can also do a lot . . .
so that &apos;s just one use of many that you can do with it .
and they have two basters , and they said , o.k , we &apos;re going to do this very easy and cheaper , and then we have a zero source , so more open-source hardware , electronics , these this device set up and are now brought to the market force , and now they &apos;re now the cheapest proper provider of these devices . . . in the world
i think that &apos;s kind of seven , i think , or something like
but anyway , it &apos;s still not cheap , but it &apos;s still not cheap in a framework , where it &apos;s now available to it .
so , i think it &apos;s a very , very length ha@@
a project that i just started to build was a time of time .
choice , yes , is like a kind of a kind of a air pressure that &apos;s going to take a shoot about this , two centimeters or
you invite it to gold particles , and the gold particles then get into that air pressure tube , and then i slip it up to the robs and then i snu@@
so the device that you see there doesn &apos;t work .
but that &apos;s my way of getting rid of my prototype , which was pretty eerial , like this , like this , like this , that thing , pulling out electronics , plumpled , and that was the pressure was too high , it
and then i took a node of a chicken and put that on . .
a season of a death owner , if you have the power of water , it &apos;s enough to have pressure , i think , like , four to six ni@@
and then you can accelerate the particles heavy , and then you can put them in the onion .
and the commercial device costs about five and a half thousand dollars up to something like this , or sacping fee around the 50 . . a jet .
so it doesn &apos;t have the same efficiency , but it &apos;s basically done .
so , it &apos;s the core moment that you &apos;re looking at , right now , the core issues of the scene , and also to increase the information and the understanding of the information , that more people
because , as in the beginning , it &apos;s an incredibly important technology , and most people are actually very little idea about , and no chance of getting really good at getting us . .
because when you read about it , from seven-minded literature , it &apos;s not the same as you &apos;ve seen it or you &apos;ve seen it . .
and i think technology is becoming more important in our modern societies .
and if you want to get as an informed citizen in society , and talk to participation , you need access to knowledge and technology . , you need access to knowledge and technology
and you have to do it and understand it , and understand it . . . .
and then it &apos;s going to be under the finchest open bench
so you &apos;re in the position of citizen as citizens , and then you have these technologies , and then
and that &apos;s the core concerns of the biohackers . .
these are the people who have put at least officially have the website , the green y.bio-dot-org website . .
that &apos;s a fairly substantial number of people around the world .
and also , interestingly , they &apos;re also in southeast asia . . .
that &apos;s what i believe are there , there are fewer people in them than actually exi@@
so i know about some of you who have not cared .
and these are just the biohacker , the individual people .
and partly with these hackerspaces , these places are carried together . .
and that &apos;s in the beginning .
so , as i said , two-thousand-two employees , it
and hackerspaces , the computer hacker spaces , because the c-base in berlin was the first , the first 10 hundred and a half thousand .
and this is now a gigantic network of very good , yes , infrastructure centers that have confronted all over the world . . .
and we hope , of course , that we &apos;re going to be a bit of similarities , and also similar to them , so that it &apos;s also
and i would invite invitations each time to try and try and get out . .
now , it &apos;s not as simple as it is , but it &apos;s not impossible for you to put some curiosity in it , and you get enough energy into
thank you for listening .
that &apos;s it .
yes , hello .
how do we actually do people ?
this is a question that &apos;s very moved to me as a designer , but also in the field of scialcies and all sorts of things in the field . an experience .
it &apos;s about how you enable people to be able to enable their interactive media and to use a possible ending experience to make them more satisfying . satis@@
because i believe that the interactive media inside us , the archaaan , cognitive models of addressing , so paradigms that are modeled in our biological memory from very , very long , and that we can actually revi@@
and this is very amazing because you actually believe that this high-tech technology that you would encounter is that you actually put one in the future , but in fact , the future is right in front of us , with our archagical
now , what are the archaan models
i wrote four niches on the end , and i &apos;d like to explain to
and archaan cognitive models , and that is the models that we have been
to these archaas models , we heard one principle of natural ratio to virtuality . . . .
this is basically very , very mean ,
but i &apos;m going to take you back to the moment , and i &apos;m going to show you that you &apos;re having a natural relationship to the virtual pathology . . .
the second aspect is that since we &apos;ve been able to do this archaaan models , we &apos;re very , very specious , even though we &apos;re using a coat language . . .
and the third area , actually , explained itself .
we all know that interactive media is based on definition nonlinear , which involves the common inaction of linearity , and what of course tells us , of course , is we feel the linear@@
the fourth thing is that history is for us to be a place of information . .
now , what &apos;s now with the virtual virtuality is that we &apos;re in the world &apos;s most natural thing
i &apos;d like to prove that to you that you
how many doors have the house where they live in ?
we &apos;re not going to answer you immediately , but it &apos;s going to happen to you again , and it &apos;s happening happening right now .
they go through the spirit in which they live , and look at how many doors there are . . a lot
and that &apos;s exactly what they do .
they are virtues of reality without computers . without computers .
fantastic , right ? ?
and we &apos;re struggling there to do the virtual reality in our v.r. lab , which is to do that all the time . , we can actually do this
and that one of the wealth that is virtual to virtual practices , they needed to be a bitter , because they had nothing whatsoever . stuff
they didn &apos;t have the books . .
or they didn &apos;t have a pickoligraphy .
they were not a mass medium .
the and only in thing that they particular had level
was , her the head reme. mber@@
in this head , knowledge was known , and using this virtual imagery , the inception , they were now given . . . .
and so it &apos;s so much in us that we &apos;re able to deal with virtuality as well . . .
and the interesting thing is , if i can make a little trip .
yes , it goes . .
and what &apos;s interesting about this at that time in time was that at that time , human producers was at the same
now , if you think about it a little further
what are the media today ?
then you &apos;ll notice that there is a change .
but i &apos;ll get to that in a minute . .
so the fundamental tool of information technology has been all around . .
schamaneen , priests , we call the word gwarden , were releasing for extra numbers to keep knowledge in
and also , we &apos;re very , very strong in stories . stories
the author of the book , the storybis , jonathan gotsum , is still a one-hour of a hundred hours with receptions of stories . . .
that means for a child who has been able to do the achieghts of the great age of his life with receptacle stories .
now we think our love of stories depends on that as a child on the lap of our parents . .
no , no , no , overall .
this goes on to be a lot further in the cultures of pre-history
but to me , in the area of interactive media as an amatious , is that we &apos;ve been deposited by our biological memory , the ability to think of nonlinear
i brought you an example of the north american stem of the noot-indians of the no@@
and life lived in the coastal region of british columbia .
and as you can see , this is a very inspiring zone , and you had to kind of navigate this , from insel from insel to d. to get food . .
and they did it with so-called lead-land
you may know that already , if you &apos;re a little bit interested , from the australian warinmen . . in the
they have similar principles .
they don &apos;t have lead-land maps , but they have the kind of genius songlines
and what &apos;s interesting about this is that the navigation and the topography was shaped above songs of songs . . .
which is , using sub-super-based ranging .
that is , you &apos;re navigating sound and about rhythm . .
and these sounds and that rhythm have the geology , which represented topography of a region , and that , of course , has allowed to make these songs fragmented and to put in a different way and to put them together and go back to the right and again to the front of
why don &apos;t we sing to get to b , from the top of a to
anyway , to navigate . .
what happened ? ?
this we is &apos;ve what gone happened from , a that hier&apos;s m-the up
natural virus machine . age . . . . . .
and then the machine age and then , the machine age is happening , and it &apos;s happened ,
and what happened is that we &apos;ve shifted the responsibility for our memories and the self-production of our individual memories in external media .
and on the book , and up to the
so we &apos;ve got a little beyond to virtual , a bit beyond , to have a bit of a transcendent
virtuality is suddenly stranger to us , and
bruce brown , a very famous design researcher
let &apos;s make a little resemblance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
from the bird age to the machine age . . .
what has empathibles in our minds and our memorality ?
then the emphasis is the out-industrial impacts .
and they are actually more likely to be blogged by the centuries
so , instead of remembrance , we have standardized , wideperous , we have a lot of petro@@
we &apos;re not producing anymore . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
we have a abstract language
we &apos;re not going to make the case in images anymore
we &apos;ve used to think about things linear . . . . . .
and we have accepted the linearity as a law and there
what we left is the &quot; storyteller . &quot; . . . . . .
still , we are very , very re@@
the question is , what &apos;s next ? . . . .
we had this age age , we had the machine
this sounds like this , and it sounds like a science fiction , and i know it &apos;s a science fiction . . . .
but these concepts of cyberage , they bring us to the rediscover
there &apos;s virtual linearity , it &apos;s about nonlinearity , it &apos;s about frozen . .
i want to explain a little bit about a little bit . . .
there are technical concepts like the landaugmented reality
so if you look at google glass , for example , then that &apos;s
another example is what &apos;s called virtual reality . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
so , as crazy as i &apos;m talking about , we &apos;re moving into physical forces , and we &apos;re moving into physical worlds , virtual worlds , after the holoco model . . . . . . .
and others , another example , are ambidities , intelligent systems
these are the spaces that can react to a person . . .
all of this requires the ability to accept the fundamental ability of being a real habitat . .
i &apos;ve actually taught , and i hope the video will bring , a very , very beautiful project , that &apos;s the bachelentwork of michael burk , anal kathrin , jordis kllness , jordi &apos;s age and j.moritit .
and the two also last , too . here
you might stand up for a minute , so you can talk to the two through the project . . . . .
and this project , as example , i brought in the archaean , cognitive models of addressing , addressed .
and this is a game , i have to say .
so what &apos;s going on behind the &quot; well , of course , is a computer game . . .
and if i say computer game game , you probably have very likely to think that any people in your mind will be happy to put around , or that they &apos;re playing with any concert in their hand . . . .
anyway , they &apos;re doing it in the inside .
it &apos;s a game on outside .
and that is tired of trying to discover the outside world , so i reexplored the real world . .
and this game is connecting the virtual world , so the data that we produce with the real world . . .
i &apos;m sorry to do so much in a way .
you can tell that much more quickly , there &apos;s more to you . there is more . behind that
and it &apos;s about making a city exploring by watching where positively , i &apos;m looking at where places go to place or negative .
and so i &apos;m getting a very different view of the city , a different impression , which i see is negative zones of a city and a very different kind of thing , a very different virtual map of a very real city . .
and we &apos;re now here to look at this .
ah what you can see here , sorry is another piece of what you &apos;re about to see . . .
of course , this virtual world , of course , habitats to the walls of our cities
and with a kind of picklight , we can make these virtual worlds visible
so i would like to summarize once my talk , in the sense that the properties and skills that we &apos;ve got from the bird age age , and then went a little bit of the machine age , that with the help of something called &quot; cyver age , &quot; and that we don &apos;t really have a future that went on in the machine age , that with the help of something called &quot; cyver age , &quot; and that we don &apos;t really get into
thank you .
yes , i &apos;m really excited to be with you .
i had been asked if this sack is a sack , and i &apos;m going to talk instead
it &apos;s not going to
i &apos;m also going to remain the same . on this .
but i &apos;m doing it all the time . . .
yes , children are naturally curious or should be curious , designers are also .
i &apos;m a design of the house , so i &apos;m involved in , of course , in the subject of curiosity and how does the curiosity change , and why are we going to lose curiosity and we &apos;re going to lose it again and have it re@@
this is a whole bunch of things to be used to the actual thing as a form of mind .
now , when professors become curious , they &apos;re often going to be standing up in the same
and that &apos;s also what i &apos;d been in the last hal@@
a research semester for natural gemaster design . .
now you &apos;ll be wondering why the whole scan is where the designers are going to be working with as natural , archagical displays of communication , interactions
and that &apos;s where i &apos;m only holding one of these little devices up because things are supposed to be more intuitive , always natural , use more , and there &apos;s one you have to look at what &apos;s actually going on for us , what is the user being adapted
and i &apos;ve been in the field of natural training design , which is the next generation in the process of human computers in the same way that our tools or how the computer of sukcessive changes the digital assistant on the digital assistant as the computer and how the computer from the computer sukcessive is changing
so i started to talk about when , of course or so ,
and maybe again , again , a view of it
why is this happening ? ? that ?
so if we look at our society &apos;s development , we &apos;re now moving from the third to the fourth social generation or more of society . . . . .
so from modern to the computer society .
every society is shaped by a price-like medium .
at the beginning , the tribal community is through the language . . .
that is , you &apos;ve found , in order to communicate a common language , you could communicate with each other , and in other areas , cities have created or village , and they &apos;re kind of creating a bal society , and they &apos;re kind of
the primary medium was the language , something very natural , something very natural , something very
you had to learn also , so no child , you know , can be talking about nature , but we &apos;re learning it sukzessive
this was done by ancient society and the first form of abstraction . . .
and that was a huge shattering , because of course , the living language began to manifest the kind of living language , which is what fluid and alive , i &apos;m starting and checking it in stone , i &apos;m able to do it .
as i &apos;ll have chewing , and , of course , i &apos;m going to have a very different kind of record than if it &apos;s a living kind of living . . .
but sukzessive then turned this script as primary media , received intervention . a
and then the next generation we &apos;re actually even more primarily living in today .
this is just the pressure and print script with gutenberg and
at the time , the monkey , where the dule , cranus and others have said , are you crazy if the people are beginning to read , the afterwards are still going to talk to us , and that &apos;s actually fatal . is actually fatal
and now , in the next generation , and what &apos;s exciting is that we &apos;re just going to get a generic shift in a generation of generational change , and we &apos;re really really in this phenomenal phase that we &apos;re doing this . . . .
that confuses us completely , of course , because we &apos;re seeing on one hand , the new media , the global media , facebook and so on
with total transparency , which is the new thinking , what &apos;s bubble on the old thinking , say , &quot; that &apos;s not the case that the laser &apos;s meat , &quot; no double-like phenomena , or any of the phenomena , i want that just to clarify and do
and those two glows are just coming together , new and old thinking . . . . . .
and what &apos;s exciting is , if you look at anomas , this new society , this computer society , is very much , very powerful mechanisms , principles and archaic paradigms from that tribal society . . .
now , no longer on local level , but on a global scale . .
we &apos;ve understood that the weather is global .
that the theme of ecology is a global institution .
not if i &apos;m located here , and it &apos;s an ecologically thinking , and it &apos;s less ecologically thinking , it won &apos;t work
that means that , from local village , it &apos;s become a global village with the same principles , of course , as well as intuitive , but also the complete transparency .
as you could then , in town in the village , who had what had to do with whom when , this is what happens to me today , through these institutions , through these mobile enclosures of
it &apos;s that we know globally and ever-growing and ever-growing . . . . . . . .
it &apos;s just as much as it was happening in the
i mean , i just pretend to see what is it that it &apos;s like to see what is it , what &apos;s the case for us , what is it that &apos;s going to make for us ,
because often people are getting people , they can &apos;t be used to use so that they can handle it . .
so you have to focus on what &apos;s because , not just do it , it &apos;s going to change it , it &apos;s going to get better . .
and when , of course , when something intuitive , and how do i feel as a form of intervention and really design it as a form of mind and design it just so you &apos;re an intuitive , so that then you &apos;re intuitive , because then you &apos;re having fun and
you &apos;re entering , you know , during the course of the study , the issue of perception and
and of course , that &apos;s what you &apos;re starting to do , and you &apos;re going , okay , now , you know ,
and what about that , actually , in the
so how do we work when we go into reinit ?
and what does that mean , of course , is intuitive , and how do our kanches affect perception and how does the
because steve jobs said you have to make a strong thing to test prep it it &apos;s
so you really have to look at the details when i &apos;m kind of using something friendly or intuitively , which is that he does that in the core . .
and what you see is you have a very , you know , a seven sench , which most people think of are now seven , and now we already recognize seven , and we already have a very neat , and as an extension again , it &apos;s going to be the next one , and it &apos;s also going to be the
and seeing how we &apos;re processing information , how do we take information ?
by all , what &apos;s information ? information ?
information is any difference that makes a difference .
many use the word , knowing it , don &apos;t actually know what it is to
but i have to understand in the heart , understanding when is it going to be energy information to information , when are you going to know how to do things i can , i know how i can also intuitive , or opdify . . .
and of course , how does this affect the perception
we see this , when i turn things up , i can make them confused like on the right , where i don &apos;t know what is a salt and pepper or i can design it kind of intuitively . shows . shows , or i can design it kind of intuitively . shows
so a lot of natural , actually , in a pod , but i see sort of directly where is a salt and pepper in there . in there .
and if i tell someone , give me salt or pisses , then they &apos;ll be at the right time , where &apos;s in the room . . .
and then on the left , i &apos;m going to be amatively sucking and hopefully i &apos;m going to realize that there &apos;s no sugar
but also , our perception itself , how they favor us ,
so , for example , this perception in
the right circle is actually bigger than the little , although it &apos;s not the case , but it &apos;s a very well-established size , and yet , our perception , depending on what context we put in .
does anybody know what that is ?
come on .
facator should have been working .
it &apos;s going to be more like my glasses . .
so it &apos;s the n circle .
a second circle is already beginning to correlate certain times , or associate . .
and then , if i &apos;m going to sit down to a half of them , we &apos;re less likely to see one unit , which is , &quot; circle , circle and , we &apos;re looking at one unit , we don &apos;t see anymore three parts , a circle , a
this what is &apos;s something important that for is designers called , high-they level usually psychology have , the or first a
semeasure mepsychology ster , , which the also great changes design us laws in . perception . , the
designer &apos;s law is near , blart law of the continuity and so on .
and it &apos;s often a third day again . .
but that &apos;s an essential part of this , if you want to make things you &apos;re intuitive as well
the next phenomenon , which is also very interesting , is the
sounds very badly , but it &apos;s very exciting to be a little bit closer to it . . .
so we got the eyes on the front , and we think we &apos;re seeing from the front up the
that &apos;s wrong .
they first look at the front of the front
namely , they tend to be promping , that they &apos;re seeing something that they recognize , precious rock . .
that means we &apos;re only going to see our vision before we see it back in our sehew , to say all the things we get in our sehew pat@@
i have a cognitive feedback , you have what projms is , what you
and then that &apos;s what comes back to that . .
then you go forward , because the back doesn &apos;t take you on the front , and he says , &quot; you don &apos;t see whether what you see is what you want to see . .
and then it goes back to the back , and then it &apos;s going to be late . . .
so , a very exciting process , like some of the things that are happening , and what the million-dollar areas are happening . in the way that
i don &apos;t know who &apos;s going to know this picture .
and that &apos;s what happens exactly what i just described .
now everyone from this pattern is trying to detect something . . .
i don &apos;t know who &apos;s going to see it . .
does somebody see a particular thing ?
a dalmatiner , right .
if i saw that , that &apos;s because there &apos;s a dalmatiner inside there , you know that .
you &apos;ll never forget it , because i &apos;m showing you where the dalmatiner is .
now you see the dalmatiner .
and on , you &apos;re always going to see him . .
now , i actually suggested you now that they &apos;re not able to recognize any basic photolife in it , but i &apos;ve got them conconditioning within a few years , and i &apos;ve got concondition-shifting
and this is the projection of vision , feedback , vision .
now i know now , now i &apos;m going to proof , i &apos;m seeing the dalmatiner
i see the dalmatian . .
so , very exciting processes that then you can do that , yeah , gray is actually not , but here in this red force was actually going to be displayed by this . .
does anybody know what about three seconds ?
long , yes . .
this is our present .
so it &apos;s always interesting to know that as a designer .
if i know something , three seconds , i kind of take out of the moment into the past , i can actually get straight in the past , i can &apos;t get a lot of time right now where i &apos;m always doing it with three seconds .
it &apos;s got to process that as the present .
and then it goes to the past , and so i can really help very elegant and teily for example , for example , when i know that phenomenon . when i know that
what does five thousand seconds take away ? ?
yes , milliseconds .
and also a very exciting phenomenon
that &apos;s the timing of time in fall . . .
that means that , if you know that , you know who you &apos;re going to take you to know who you &apos;re going to take you on for long , because i
and that six &apos;s million the seconds ti, ming also of a most very perexciting cep@@
phenomenon tions . that we . have . . . . .
that &apos;s the first impression that happens in a rapidly fast speed as we perceive things . .
and as we see things as we see , and how we relate to our environment , so that we can encounter that . . . . .
now , the shape not only , not only , reluctability and cognitive processing or cognitive processing , but primarily , primarily with human object . . . . . .
so , how does a human being be displayed
there &apos;s a product of product , the practical functions , so malware , as formignanal parts , are the kind of unique things .
there are signs of functions where i know exactly where to reach . . .
but there are also symbolic functions , so why have you just given up for a little bit of a sleeper where there &apos;s hardly any things in it , so that &apos;s horror summers of money ,
we &apos;re more symbolic on the most symbolic , which we also engage as a creator of course . . . .
to my actual point , of course , of course , of natural builds and the issue , which is , of course ,
usable means how can i achieve a goal or a goal , or how can an user be able to achieve in a certain operating context , effectively , efficient and satisfying a goal . .
so it &apos;s more like the norm .
how do i make use of this ? that i could use
i can do this directly or i need it by hand book or i need to call it a random school
and less useless or user friendly . . .
that i &apos;m only doing it , and i make beautiful , doesn &apos;t mean it &apos;s
you have to understand that . .
and then , if you think of the software that we just saw , it &apos;s going to be able to understand why nine and eighty percent of our current software was so intuitive or not using on the basis of deciding the i.q. , the i.q. in many areas or i-cell , even though
so , the reason that &apos;s intuitive is not only a proper economic factor , the primary energy factor , if i want to make a tool of people &apos;s tools . . . . .
why ?
because normally , we &apos;re using these new kinds of usability , so the natural user cells , for example , are at least five times faster at our destination . .
you have to imagine that , if you &apos;re doing something of the classic sobtroth , five hours , and you have to have an hour of natural software just for an hour . type of natural software . a new
now , you don &apos;t think you can probably get home for four hours , but your employers or someone will come to a little bit like he &apos;s engaged with the four hours
but i want to say that for us , of course , it &apos;s a very smart performance rise , we &apos;re also making certain things to do .
so if we then give ourselves back into the field of software , so the first song interfaces that were very abstract was where you took months to deal with these systems . . . .
and then the next ones that already came to nenem neural model or mental models like the software of space , you have worked , you have an idea of something that &apos;s metaphor , the metaphor of the desktop , to make the computer usable . .
so and no this more has zerbeen os much and better sing, ing of , course or , krbut ypit tic
&apos;s comuch des better , than is that a . metaphor . a lot . better than . that .
the so next i generation used of to the form graphic a user lot reserof dtimes der as is
a working crea ator lot as more the with result behavior . . than . that .
this is a paradigm shift . .
and so suddenly , i think that this looks always unimportant to success , the usability is a pointing piece . .
and if i take one step further into this natural user interfaces , where i &apos;m a voice , language , playing by gesture , gesture , gestures and no longer your mouse and cursor , i &apos;m still quicker and
but this is also leading to the point , but when are things really intuitive ? ?
if you become more intuitive , and then i have to paste my little friend here , and see , which is that coming from the point of cognitive control , when is it really something that &apos;s so intuitive ?
and that &apos;s kind of a bit intuitive to us as humans , when i have to think about it a little bit about it .
so he doesn &apos;t seem to think like he &apos;s going to make it quite easy , but it &apos;s a bit of
the less i think about it , the more intuitive it is . . .
and what does that mean for the designers ?
so , if we look at that , we can actually translate that we can translate existing crafting from one to something else , the metaphor , i can make this as
that is , i can just transfer a precognitive human action model to software , and make the software more use more effectively . in the way that
but , of course , the question is , what is the intuitive action of us , the human people , and now i &apos;ve been telling it to me
this is what the osimir model is .
it &apos;s used by all of us and ostensizes , and it &apos;s an acronym , and it &apos;s for comprehensive
and that makes each of you all the time , but he does not consciously make it consciously and in part , as intuitive as you can . instinctively
the model is already going on in the womb , and is interculturally , so it works in young and old , and it &apos;s going to work by us all the time without knowing that this model is there . , the world &apos;s available
it &apos;s been found by about 50 to 17 times a thousand times by activity , so you &apos;ve figured out that there &apos;s less a lot of fragile being done on the day . . . .
now i can now orient this mental action model , selecting , incentives , transfer , transfer
and through this kind of transmission , similar to the metaphor of the desktop , but not a metaphor of a physical object , but a metaphor of a toating pattern , a crafting principle .
and this is on a higher grail of the user &apos;s learning as a transmission of classic metaphor , which is the desktop . one . .
and so , for example , if i go through this , for example , in my forecas , selectively , as opposed to , inspect , to me , to me , it &apos;s all about me , looking at me , and i &apos;m sure , it &apos;s tranferporating , and i can &apos;t put that in there or buy somebody
then i can transfer that whole . .
i &apos;m trying to do this in a way that i
everybody &apos;s been eating . &apos;clock .
and i think , now , interacting with the object , i kind of zoom out , zoom out on it ,
i &apos;ll get the entire overall look , can be filtering up to filter this , and can just say , show me the whole thing
and i have a interface , which is so more intuitive and much more intuitive .
because i can control things like the bits , and touch , and they come up to me is a lot more natural than than if you have hierarchically organized websites or other mechanisms of mechanisms to make things available . . a way of doing these things . . , or
now , imagination is more and more el-tired , and i want to end with that note , a one and again , to give the hines , including the evidence , even the designers have to think differently , to get to new solutions , and
i want to help you a specific aspect of curiosity . . . .
the first thing that if you get up to a child as a child , it &apos;s that they care about what drives shit they have , yeah ? and if their parents have allowed them to play more or less in the thusher , the more , they become their curiosity of course . . , they &apos;re going to be eradicated of
and curiosity doesn &apos;t learn . .
so , they &apos;re all about these who are and curious , actually , people who have a property that you cannot learn .
i &apos;m now about to make all this entire environmental debate , world-scale rome , to make it work in quality . . . . . .
and there &apos;s a central thing to do .
and it depends on phosphorus . .
give pee a opportunity .
they give you a number of more of the phosphorus , and they &apos;re going to take about two gram of phosphorus and they have to take two gram of phosp@@
otherwise you can &apos;t have teeth .
they cannot store energy . . . .
they can &apos;t have bones . . .
we could only distinguish as amorroes mollusks through the world &apos;s ocean . . .
if indeed we take our phosphorus and we go out . . .
now , amazingly , we &apos;re talking about something here , which is actually what we &apos;re doing , but not that much
because everyone talks about energy , but nobody is talking about phosphorus . . .
the phosphorus problem is much more critical .
we depend on two countries . .
we &apos;ve only got phosphorus , and already has already become more urgency , in the world , in the world , in a lot more urbitizing to the environment than being used in all
in the last two decades alone , there are five thousand tons of uranium on our fields in germany . . . .
and we take that all up . .
leukemies in children . .
and we think we would protect the environment if we &apos;re a little less skillful .
so , for example , shittering the environment , less of the
shine the environment , make less waste . .
shine the environment , less energy . .
that &apos;s not a protection .
so this is like i said , look , your kid , just three times as much as
that &apos;s just a little bit less destruction .
if we think about the nox to the bag , our whole world will be used to later , or later a peaceful . . . .
that &apos;s why the weighty of thinking . . . .
and the most important thing is looking at the soil , is to look at the ground
in the soil , over 60-percent of the carbon is stored .
we &apos;re building maize on the moment , and losing between 11 and three-pound pounds per hectare , or at the square meter , or using it . in the square meter , or using it
that means we &apos;re losing a five-minute , more reformed , more reformed .
we can look at the war of course the land problem . .
and all you do is wrap package or content .
for example , in the house of houses , by two percent of the landtimes of the landing raincape . . . .
and so because that we &apos;s &apos;re what older they , &apos;re the all wind in will the be
order bigger of . the day . . . . . .
yes ?
a baby takes about six-and-hour wind . .
we could of course reduce this , about 10 percent , but what does it do ?
this is going to be compared to in a second .
this is completely trivial .
so here the &apos;s question one is of , the how evidence do that we men deal are with not
these pigdis vel. ing ? . ? . . .
let me tell you . . .
because the phosphorus is actually given to the pig parts of the feathers . .
people on urinine . . . .
yeah .
so men don &apos;t have a pig .
because that &apos;s evidence , right ? .
traditionally , we think of the environmental debate , we &apos;re too many people in the world . too . . .
and when you &apos;re told people , when you &apos;re experiencing it , if you &apos;re told that it &apos;s better , you &apos;re not there , then you &apos;re going to be refugeous and ho@@
and so someone like al gore , one of our great heroes , there &apos;s nothing important to stabilize the human population . . rising .
in israel , you say , if you &apos;re reading a human life , you &apos;re going to eat
here it says , the more you get , the better you are . . . .
yeah .
the first question is , are we truly too many ? ?
if you look at the ants , the weight of the ants on earth , the ants are about four times more than we humans are
i could also take an artery , but in the states , nobody would be seen in that same remote , although they &apos;re veget@@
that means that ants spinning much more than us
and because they &apos;re working physically much harder than we do , and because only three or six months of life , they will be degraded in their weight , in the energy consumers
that means we &apos;re not too many , we &apos;re stupid , yeah ? ? . .
and where you &apos;re looking at how far we were going to get away from what we really wanted to get , and could we be , and how sad we are at all on earth , can you be able to see that , for example , what sad we are is a program , until 20 , 30 , you want to
you can only be cliansman if you don &apos;t exist , yeah ? ?
the only way . .
have you ever seen a client tree ? ?
yes ? ?
one ? ? one
that means our whole intelligence means that we want to be a trees , right ? . . .
yes ? ?
no tree is carbon tral . . . .
thankfully , yes ?
there &apos;s no overpopulation problem in trees . .
there are still six-up billion trees alone in the amazon .
they &apos;ve heard about trees from trees that have been heard of trees
that means that all of our intelligence means we want to be a trees as trees . .
and where you see , even as demeter , the striking bio-ups , you cannot do that , you cannot go back and forth our own metabolic products .
we lose three million tons each year that really would have to go back to circulation . . .
and that &apos;s where we are too many .
just about it . .
that &apos;s what we feel so aftenly on earth , that we &apos;re saying . there &apos;s no organic farm , no bioland , no natural replacement , and how you all are , that allow our own excrement to go back . . . . .
isn so &apos;t we that are sad too ? many
. ? . ? . ?
it &apos;s safe to be less damaging , to be less damaging , which is oil
but where are we practical ? ?
we &apos;re trying to minimize our environmental footprint , but it &apos;s about having a big footprint that &apos;s useful . . .
we want to be good for society , we want to be good for the economy , but if it &apos;s about the environment , the highest , not to be there , right ? ? ? ? ? ?
nullemissions , yes
you can only have zerllemissions , if you &apos;re
even if you shoot yourself , you would have degrees . . .
so you can &apos;t fix this .
we can do it differently .
we can regain our nutrients .
we &apos;re doing it in brazil , agriculture in where we &apos;re removing the nutri@@
in fact , we can go back to that kind of environment in the way
we do this in china for example , where we take directly the waste of the distances .
in china , a post-lake , you know , honey here , you know , yes ? ? ?
and in our western world we were always jombled , our nutrients . .
that means that the entire western civilion story draws out that the city is always just taken , but the farmers never had been given back .
and so the cities would grow more and more because the farmers went into the cities and the cities had to go and continue to get their nutrients . .
so all western rich is always expanding , until they &apos;ve done the infrastructure and then they &apos;re implocked . . .
yes ? ?
in china it was different .
they &apos;ve been able to get a fif-year civilization on five thousand years because you &apos;ve been able to get the nutrients
even today , if you &apos;re invited to eat in china , you expect to stay like you stay , until you &apos;re looking for the toilet . .
because it &apos;s unfriendly to go and take the nutrients . .
they have laid them to eat them , not to the nutrient core .
that means you can see the web in the web , you can get the nutri@@
it &apos;s actually nice , if you do , so agriculture makes , biogas , in a hectare country with five thousand people in favelas , can produce a sisty-foot , roughly a hundred hundred dollars , and the production that is available for the chicken to grow chicken and pigs and vegetables and a fish . . . . . . . .
and the great thing about this is that the rate of criminal rate goes back in the favelas about nine percent .
so we don &apos;t need to control people , just to be very little . . . . .
we can support them to be good .
that &apos;s , of course , high-tech agriculture , but the plants have self-interest .
the byproduct is clean water .
and they &apos;re designed to be designed by design to make a farmer just to produce it
so , that means that the juice marks
and none of these assets , we now have over a hundred to fifths in the last two decades , not of these assets , has never been organized . . sabling .
you could put a liter allil in the house so easily that &apos;s going to be ruined over years . . .
there &apos;s no difference .
that means we don &apos;t have to control people , just to be very little . . . .
we can support them to be good .
that means we have to get phosphorus back .
and by the way , if you want to do what you want to do , you go up , in germany , to be best in frankrit . . .
unfortunately , the &apos;t obvious thing , but maybe you can help the auterster to help us get a little
because the frozen sands may best restore the phosphorus . . . .
and it has to go back .
we &apos;re seeing that we really criticize phosphor@@
and we see it really does . . .
we &apos;ve now been working in holland for three years . . .
the industry has led to the dutch government , which is to refuse phosphorus to rewarse
but we need that in total .
you know , there are two countries control control of the world &apos;s phosphorus reserves . . . .
there is opec a bunch of orphanies . . .
that &apos;s six-day countries who control 40 percent of the oil supply . . . . .
and the oil will replace that by other energy returns . .
but you cannot replace phosphorus . . .
that &apos;s not about making existing the existing of the existing , it &apos;s about making something right . .
and first of all , first of all , is what the right thing
that means that it &apos;s about efficiency , not about efficiency
in holland , of course , you have this easier because in holland , the land is built in
yes ? ?
imagine if you &apos;re sad , for example , your wife &apos;s sad , if you cared at it , and you come
completely inefficient .
but really , very effective , yes
or take a lip pen .
a woman in germany , about six comma three pounds of her life . . . . .
so here .
that &apos;s not exactly right , scientifically , because we don &apos;t know how much away is being cool . . . . is
but a lip pen , even at that light trick , can i tell you , is completely inefficient , but really effective , yes ?
a thing that &apos;s beautiful in life is not efficient .
that &apos;s not the point of resources , it &apos;s effective . . .
so to ask , what is the right ? ? .
not to burn the gloriet , even more quickly , and it &apos;s going to shut down the whole material and to lose it in the ramble plant , but first of all , to ask how you do the
imagine mozart efficient . .
yes ?
when i get them to dinner and say , yes , there &apos;s a pickle with a misery taste and a glass of water . . . . .
wonderful that , &apos;s &quot;
efficient is . it
all that is beautiful in life is not efficient .
if you fall in love in love with somebody else ?
yes ?
that means that all that matters in life is not to save , to avoid . . . .
all the environmental debate .
we tell people , oh , you haven &apos;t got an eye-the-green awareness . .
no , throw it away is just the right thing , right ? ?
at every point , you throw away from , yes , you &apos;ll make life . .
but the wrong things .
if you throw away the wrong things , you have a waste problem .
as we think about the north . . .
there &apos;s every footprint that everybody has proven .
if you walk , yes , everybody &apos;s footprint , the surface , they burn
because the soil is going to die , and the wind , and the water , you load the soil .
but if you &apos;re in italy , everyone means that the water remains in the meadow for longer .
so , it &apos;s about making a big footprint that &apos;s going to get a wetland .
not debt management . .
we say in germany . sustainability
yes ?
but if i ask you , how do you deal with your wife
what do you say then ?
sustainable .
i &apos;m saying , kind of , very poor , right ? ?
that &apos;s the minimum . is the
so not save , they &apos;re missing , avoidance . .
any waste is nutrient . waste .
and it &apos;s a lust when you see in italy , like the people in the high bow , blowing off coke . .
because you know , it &apos;s a fun process . .
it &apos;s a retreat of retreat , right ? ?
you can show , i was there .
but with the real design , please .
for example , we &apos;ve developed an ice scanl , which is liquid temperature . liquid . .
they can throw them away from where they go
in two hours , they &apos;re going to be locked everywhere . .
and it contains seeds of rare plants , so that they can contribute through the biodiversity of biodiversity . .
that means we &apos;re useful , not less pest . . . .
so , two circles . .
not to be sure is not supposed to be compo@@
and a television machine or a washing machine that you &apos;re just using , you don &apos;t use it . consum@@
the things that miss , as you have , how to get the hesituous , how the heel , like the guardons , have to be like the car , they need to be in biological systems . .
the things that are just used are going into technical systems
but today we &apos;re just talking about biological systems .
yes ?
for example , the sneaker , yeah ? ?
in general , it &apos;s not for the company called puma by doncy , for that they &apos;re helping this to be
because we don &apos;t do the things better than that . .
yes ?
so if i invite you to the food and say , it &apos;s free of grief , it doesn &apos;t help anything .
no , we &apos;re stuck what &apos;s inside .
positive . .
so not like detox . .
not poisonous in the heart . .
it &apos;s all in the stuff that &apos;s useful .
these are the first shoes you can put on the cavalalian &apos;s nest at the pedestrian nest and go to biological cycles , right ? ? ? ?
everything is compoble about it . compo@@
and if we succeed , of course , we can engineer , for a nike , for kea , for den-and mauritz , and all the textile industry . .
and that &apos;s half of all of the river &apos;s water problem in the world that are caused
and so , i &apos;m helping you with , ask for the people
hey , puma , does you really care ? ?
because already they did it twice the head board . . . .
and i &apos;m not sure you &apos;re really going to get there . .
so help me do a little bit .
it &apos;s happening . .
yeah .
that &apos;s what &apos;s been presented just about .
this is . .
we can do things now that , if you merge , if you &apos;re merged , you can go into biological circles . circular circles .
we have the same technology . cycle
there is this direct backward system . . .
this is the first ecological backpack , actually , that made it into the circulation . . .
so again , in every store you can get things back . .
if you come to that , right ?
do you remember the blade again ?
if it is right now , the trash
all where right people , get there to are get
these money wind . rum . ,
and there &apos;s no way in the podium , but you also in the landscape , right ? ?
if we change the plastics so that it can go into biological systems , if we change water stores , inside the water , that they can be cropled back on cell stores , then they can plant a baby in israel or in tunisia . a baby in israel or
yes ?
just when you &apos;re taking these blade , it &apos;s sweeping , sterilizing , and the pulse picks to plant trees . .
so the baby is carbon positive for all life , from the beginning . from the beginning
so , we don &apos;t need a cligue , we can be the climate positive . . .
it &apos;s sort of a signed of a behavior .
yeah , so . .
yes ?
we can do that .
we i can started re-a reinfovent unded anything
institute . . . . . .
now , by the meantime , there are lots of people who are
there &apos;s another one that gives you a promise to cradle cradle , where everyone can do it . .
so no longer saving , enabling , reduce , no decedation , but intelligent waste . waste . waste . . .
does it be the curious ?
thank you .
the work of interpreting . .
music as a language .
in the description , i wrote in the description , that i as interpret , as a translator , is in the english word . hidden . . .
interpret is translators of the written music in clinical music . .
that you don &apos;t just have to be just a word of word , and you need to understand the text in a different language , but you need to understand the deep sense of words and what it &apos;s called , you know , to understand it , to have a meaningful translation , everybody who
already , translate into english , it can require knowledge , once you get to the diration or even about poetry . , if you &apos;re on poetry , or even
but it &apos;s a whole stranger of stores , but what we do with our music
in fact , in a piece of music , i first did the slide notes . .
you know , the composer has written everything in the notes , which he set up to be . . .
in fact , the notes are very vague and accurate .
these notes are roughly the same or immediate , like a verbal , if it &apos;s very , very apparent , description of a landscape .
because in this verbal scale , the framing of flowers is not harsh , the degree of the floats is not to listen , not to listen to the sea &apos;s wind , not to feel . .
that means that interpret needs to interpret this unlocked idea of the emergence of the emergence of a command of trust in another , which is audiaudies , concrete , nonverb@@
today i want to share with you what i would do to translate musical use , which is , interpreting
so basically a translation of translation . . .
so i prefer to do it the other thing as well , because if i had to translate it into english , it would be equally significant to me with translation of translation . . .
so , the music for me is kind of like the spoken language , so much like
the notes are the texture of the letters of the letters of a script
so it &apos;s not enough to read just the notes , and to press the keys on the piano or the right location on a violinoreside .
and the that point was of just letters the you letters can you see learned is
to when paint you . can get . language to . it .
so for the learning process , you need the music process as much as the spoken language . as the spoken
and then , there &apos;s also increments , whether you &apos;re learning it for the so-used , only passively speaking , or you can also talk to the musical mother . , to the musical language physicians . . . as
the work of interpreted is the same way of a theater director . , as a theater .
after you &apos;ve chosen a piece of play , because you &apos;re excited to leave you for the first time , the emergence of the composition .
you collect information on the seminal literature . .
you read in the letters , they cheat , or notify , or whether it &apos;s words , thoughts from compos@@
you study the works that he &apos;s composed before and after
you can compare them to that .
the how opdid tions he it feel
&apos;s ? writing . ?
how did its circumstances , like society and politics ? ? how were its living circum@@
all of this interest . .
you &apos;re thinking of that time in this time , and you &apos;re reading contemporary images
over time , you also have a rich knowledge of knowledge that you &apos;re talking about , you know , that you &apos;re going to take more people into it and feel it in it and feel it . in it . . . in it and
the composer is increasingly going to be more and more to the friend
his desire to write , to write the piece , becomes increasingly and more and more about
now , as a notes , everything else is an exact record of the contents of the composer , but just a framework , i turn this framework to make it come back and forth . . .
i &apos;ll say to my own words , which could be written between this framework . .
i &apos;m playing the way that those notes might have to be .
now for me , for the composer at the time , what you might now have for him now . . . .
every note , every phrase , gets a sense of it , because i feel it myself because it &apos;s my favorite way of doing it . for
and it &apos;s got to be now now now being interpersonated , otherwise i can &apos;t persuade my audiences to
it &apos;s always a very happy concert , when i can have the experience that i &apos;ve worked for so long for so long as to experience how new to experience . . . .
and i as &apos;ve you become experience a a day happy older new , day growing , seasyou ons get , to changing rethe fresh gra, des and at you night see , , in with a the concsame ert rituhall als , of it
life just , takes the longer breakthat fast sound , comes the back best back thing to i home do when is it again comes again home again . and again . . . on a . long time . . .
i take that breath of the audience consciously or unconsciously . . .
all of this affected me and all this , what i do is the experience of
and so , quite wonderful , if i stand on the stage with a dumb partner on the stage , and we have the same
then the same thing happens in a good , per-appropriate conversation . .
you bring in a new idea in and you &apos;ll be answered in a way that is going to
it &apos;s exciting because then things that we haven &apos;t profoked and what you can &apos;t tell .
it &apos;s great fun to make music in this way , and you have experience as the audience as the audience communicates alive . .
so each concert is a different concert . is a conc@@
i i &apos;ll &apos;m never not play going the to way play i this &apos;m as going in
to 20 play years . . in . that moment . . .
i &apos;m going to have more life experience than it is today and i &apos;m going to have a lot more color of music on the subject of music than we have today .
sure , i &apos;ll get some color heads out of it , but get new ones . . . . .
have a nice example of that . . . . .
it was on a piano censor for music students at my beloved old teachers , professor jack slack , a famin beethoven specialist , concerting , and lon-long professor of music high school at stuttkart . .
unfortunately , i was a lot too young so that he was already an emergent when i finally started to study .
but i was lucky enough to meet him very early , with three ten years , and i was on his classes at the classes . . at my time . . .
i was then 17 when i was taking one of his classes again , and i was playing the last of the room , and i was playing the last of the ballet con@@
he asked me what the enlighsument of this ballode was for me . .
this is a trade-off part . .
and in my juvenia , i said expectation
and then he was crushing , and he
that because it &apos;s it was what means about the
that six age she . of is the reme@@
. game mshould ber. be ed
well , with seventen you &apos;ve had dreams , but none of them are not a significant
i &apos;m going to play back the piece of every few years , and i &apos;ve turned it back to me today , although not a single note
every time it &apos;s exciting , because i &apos;m going to read something new again .
an example of a whole new area : monet has painted the seerogen again . . .
it &apos;s always the same garden , but different days of time , different light . . .
he &apos;s not translate the nivelant , like he saw , the way she saw it was to work on this moment .
his personal creations of the sedan . .
the x-time printing of a piece is that comparable . . . . . .
now , i &apos;m already older to this chopin with two-and-a-half years when he wrote the
it &apos;s only been a nine-day years . .
and i &apos;m important to look at notes again , even if i mean to be able to turn it off . . .
to keep the law , directly , with the composer . .
because the notes are the only connections directly to him .
most of all , when he &apos;s gone
now , how do you start talking about music &apos;s language ?
i said yes , it takes the same as long as the spoken language . . .
often you the learn music virtushop ally is a so word much , that
before you you &apos;re just learning speak to one read word the . notes
you learn to find the notes to come to the notes . . .
if all the fingers in time and right look like it &apos;s going , they come out , they &apos;ll come out together like music . . . . . . .
when the failed hits , the students get the next hard piece . . . . . .
and interpretation is not talking about interpretation in the early days .
all right , there it goes back to the foresto , which is a quick piece .
lento , slowly .
and loud and excuse , f and b , etc . . . .
you know that most of you here .
but even if you put that out , you still have a little bit more technical . .
and yet , it &apos;s always not interpretation .
i wonder . .
i wonder that you often fear something very fundamental . .
because to make music on the instrument that &apos;s got to be present with your musical and feeling before . . . .
that &apos;s singing .
a child who didn &apos;t learn singing because it didn &apos;t have the parents , it will not be done by itself . . .
it &apos;s like learning . .
it &apos;s necessary to have its own experience and the idea of music to make it happen for another possibility , so an instrument , to make sound sound .
people who have never been rehearsed has never felt like they felt to form a sound , what it is to make
a phrase with his own breath . . .
the music storing is the extension of our body .
our vocal chords to sing , our hands and feet to dance . . .
so the hammer heads in the piano the sequel of my fingers . .
the tune comes from the healthy and the rhythm of dance . . . .
the you continudon ing &apos;t report need today to is make not music proeven mot@@
when ing you . get bor. ed . . . .
no longer necessary to whistle or to whistle .
every own music is being put up on plate-front music , if you &apos;re slaughtering by the outside with
sure , there are some of you , you know , some of you who say yes , yes , but what do you do
the question i ask , can you sing , a because you believe they &apos;re not able to sing ? ,
or b because they didn &apos;t learn to sing ? ?
and it &apos;s not too late with them to start out if they can &apos;t , or learn how to put these little muscles that have the vocal chores , they use it right . . . . . .
you can train that . .
or c , because you &apos;ve made it densely you know that they &apos;re un@@
i wonder , how do i get a professional compestician that diagnose
do or you d have , a you two-don - &apos;t or like third music , , how and to therefore tell
to you do that this day , ? and to ? do it that , way you ? know ,
but what i would do is , i would regret , because music is a nice , communication thing
but maybe you can agree . . .
well , you see , at all cases , nobody must be an exceptional candidate . .
but please don &apos;t say , i don &apos;t understand the classical music . .
i can &apos;t say whether it &apos;s good or bad .
and i say , but certainly you can say , you like it or not . . .
because i don &apos;t think he says i &apos;m wearing it , because i can &apos;t cook . , i can &apos;t cook .
so so , they you don don &apos;t &apos;t have get to to do eat the it classi, cal just music because because
you they can don &apos;t &apos;t cohave ok an . instrument . . . . . .
listen whether conscithe ously music and is say plif entithey ated taste to it
you or or not is . too c. ute . . .
tell that what you feel .
over time , you get stimulies and you want to make a more emittment , and you have a little bit more taste there and you
now , why do i solve my audience now that it &apos;s active ?
because the music is a language and a language is about communicating .
an art piece you can never look at , doesn &apos;t have any power to do . . .
the food that &apos;s cooked by a chef or a chef &apos;s charity must be eaten , not only of vision or exclusion .
so please stop asking if there is a music
it &apos;s not just a nice soundsheg pete .
if you have an environment , when the adults are active with music , or at least active music , when they &apos;re going to be living in an environment , is it just easy for a music teacher , and they ask what color
can you play them in blue too ?
and the child is playing , after a thought , instead of a
and this sounds very different from before . than
that was the first start of a own musical expression . .
so the first step to a interpretation .
and what happens when you play a piece now , the original one ago , a hundred or 100 years ago , was written in a hundred
meanwhile , the instruments
there was no piano at the moment or an instrument still . . .
it wasn &apos;t invented . it was
i think the stream would have been fascinated if he had had the sound of modern foods today . modern foods . .
i can talk to the sound scenes that the stream has taken on , on the modern wing , which can &apos;t make a barockar cembali .
and also from beethoven , he &apos;s heard more than he got a lot of time .
today , a modern orchestra is able to play everything that has been rejected as a non-play .
so the composers are pointing to us that reinvents the bits back . . .
and so you can hear that auditory , what you &apos;ve imagined in the mind .
and also what you would think about in the spirit . . .
or what i &apos;m seeing now , because what you might have
thank you .
you you know &apos;ve what ever is been ti@@
to d times ? ? . ?
and how did it feel ?
shit .
i have a friend who &apos;s driving a passerati .
when i come to my little v piesel and i immediately come up with this feeling . . .
i shoot something through my head .
i &apos;m saying , do you need , what do you need to do , is
that &apos;s what &apos;s already going to get half his day .
and , at all , you &apos;re working much less than me .
why do i have to afford to buy a little car ?
and then i immediately think of that , that &apos;s unfair . .
it &apos;s against justice .
and as i say the word justice , this unpleasant feeling is
our organism has invented a great method to just get those uncomfortable feelings like just to get to disappear . .
you can try it too , words like ratin or springs or like the same . like that .
i want to talk to you about this mechanism now , or anything that &apos;s unconsciously familiar with you . as you &apos;re familiar with . . what you &apos;re unaware
the mechanism comes from the lie .
but don &apos;t think of the lie as you might have heard about people , when people say nobody , nobody has the purpose of building
and then you throw down stones so that he scups them . .
and you see , on a lie that &apos;s a lie that the liars believe not what he
it &apos;s slightly checking to be able to predict that it &apos;s very much in
it just deceives you and not self-. .
no , the lie i &apos;m talking about has to do with being aware . . .
you need to have that lie to maintain a livelihood of a lift .
they can make them less easy , yes , or
you need time .
from that time , an anecdote that you might know .
spanand ish this painwoman ter once pcomabplalins o about picthe asportraso it once
, did her a very woman didn portra&apos;t yed see . it . . . . .
picasso &apos;s waiting for you . . .
it &apos;ll be very similar to you . . .
at this point , if you &apos;re laughing , you realize how important that lie is , and how much time you need to experience what artists can tell you very well . .
because artists have a disruptive relationship to the ventilation .
the artist gives you something with you , and especially this lady , what she doesn &apos;t see when she &apos;s looking at the mirror
the artist will tell you in such a kind of portrait something that you &apos;re going to be familiar with , if you look at this
and then this awkward feeling , it may not have to look like it , and it &apos;s always like a lot of it
here you have this mechanism where we can use the lie as a great invention for the kind of thing that we have to use .
and you not may only know in this art idea , of also the in dthe ame public that sclooked ans up in every the morning myand thasked
ology him , who in is stories the , most they beautiful come all back over up the . country ? . , . in the . country
this spiegel , yes , is this mirrors , yes , there &apos;s a spi@@
behind the seven of us and so forth .
and you also know how much hostility of this real externality is , the mirror can &apos;t lift , from that real outcome . .
but we should just be trusting ourselves that one woman is not able to tell you that there &apos;s a more beautiful
so here &apos;s what we need to understand what we &apos;re understanding of policing correct@@
we we need have this not lie only to come sustainto in art the in illusion the that economsustaist ins in us the ,
anthropowithout peeven -capable face of poetry even , going but to also live in . science like . this great . li@@
and there is this story from the bishoo of workest . . .
and she heard about this book by charles darwin who &apos;s been deforming of species and the stem of the human
that the monkey was going to come from the monkey , and yes , it would have to be at least a common ancestor between people and monkeys .
and she ran off , she ran her man and said , that &apos;s , you know , he &apos;s not
the human one is supposed to be born or invoke common ancestor . .
no , no , no , it can &apos;t .
and if it &apos;s true , then we need to prevent that people will benefit knowledge
why do we have to stop people from getting knowledge from something , when it is
because without this kind of life we can &apos;t live .
because we have this self-deception , this feeling , it &apos;s great , depending on the highest creatures , not from an incalcumeration of such a blacding , of something like this , which is something that &apos;s inherently obtained about an organism that &apos;s still
so , we cannot do these things .
we need to prevent the people of knowledge of things , especially when they &apos;re true .
and so you can see how slowly this mechanism is going to unravel and how the traces look , which leads to something else , than this great image of ourselves , i want to give you another story .
i think a particularly beautiful story , i think .
my wife told them . .
she came from school one day she &apos;s a teacher , and she was talking about a student . . a student . .
an autistic student . .
she likes to love it , because he &apos;s got a tendency to proclaim .
and she asked him , what are your hobbies ? ?
and he says , you know , i &apos;m at the fireman . .
and yeah because , i you &apos;m can in feel the it firewhen fire you , &apos;re i heal&apos;m thiinterested er
in on pythis rospot mic . things there . &apos;s something . wrong . . . .
i told my wife always when a man in a moral fiction is using the word &quot; because it &apos;s what we should try and replace it through the liter@@
do you do that , and then you get the sentence . . . . . . . . . .
although i &apos;m at the firefire , i &apos;m interested in pyro@@
you feel , this is the actual truth behind the avenue . . .
so , a little bub , though ,
the care is caring about the fireplace . care of the fireplace . care .
but there is no clue that we can look around , where you learn how to
there &apos;s only second-best , the fire@@
he &apos;s got on . . . . . . . . . . . . .
and that &apos;s not what he said to his teacher , but he &apos;s not saying to his teacher you &apos;d put down a brushing and you &apos;re excited
no , it just looks much better if we
here you have this little mechanism . . . . . . . . . . .
these missions that in the very light of the bump , that in the very light of the bump , he was actually in the middle of the buck , but he can &apos;t say the sound . . . . . he can &apos;t
here you have this chamamacy between the unconscious and the conscious , who immediately jumps , without any means can ,
and so you can just use these words that we
in fact , we know that something different is true . . . . . . . .
but we know that when we announce
we can &apos;t just do that simple . . . . .
it &apos;s impossible to presence those things that are supposed to work . .
i want to start to you what we found in my institute . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
what logic does these delusion , this self-deception , the willingness
i want to give you two , maybe two examples . . . . . . . . .
the first one is that , as you know
i what mean &apos;s the the sousoul l . ?
. ? . ? . ? .
the it sou&apos;s l something is that something is that not is by a stopkind e of tconall struc, tive materi, ality says nature about . leib. niz . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
and when you have people who are the richness of belief that they have a soul , or you can also say that they &apos;ve been brought from the soul to life , so they
and from that soul , you think , you know , that somehow , in this cloud-like nature , in this kind of fancy nature , anima is called it in
and when that tragegue comes over the
and then he can walk on . . .
this is the idea of how the soul works
so it &apos;s going to come from outside to people . . . .
so we should be perceiving them as something which is necessarily present for our lives . . . . . . . .
and if you have that premise of the idea ,
because you now know you , can three apply of a you three-remember sentence from appl@@
school et . . school . . . school . .
this is a three-piece that describes us a logic . . .
this is the hardest part in my talk . . . . .
here you have to have a logic , but to lie . . . . . .
and that &apos;s how to lie that you can just use these
in this three-piece , three sentences come in . in that three-piece .
the first sentence is , well , you &apos;re claiming , there &apos;s no soul . . .
so the second sentence is , if you &apos;ve
now there &apos;s a third sentence .
i &apos;ve particularly raised it up here . . . . . . . . . .
a third sentence that immediately shows up in people who have a very strong sense of a soul .
they say who &apos;s not a sou@@
and here you feel . . . . . .
here comes this logic in this
you see it immediately . . . . .
the first two sentences , they
i can tell you all . . . .
the logic does not make a statement about reality . .
i can tell you the kannler is a man . . .
and if if i i don &apos;m &apos;t right have , a the right chan, tr@@
the or canis tra ine man is . not right . .
the logic does not make a
i can argue anything . . . . . . .
but the key thing is , if i &apos;m right , it &apos;s
so if you say enough , there &apos;s no soul . . . a
second , if he &apos;s right , he has
these things are logical correct . . . . . .
and now our fake consciousness is right , and it &apos;s now detecting our fake consciousness . . . . . . . . . .
it &apos;s a third set that has nothing to do with the first two sentences
because , in fact , we had to prove it &apos;s the soul or not . . . . . . . . . . . . .
but with this logic , which it just takes you , that two sentences
so , we pretend to be impossible without
and we &apos;re very happy about this . .
we can carry these things into different examples . . . . . . . . . .
in to the add present this , to we another have philosopa hicomplete cal example issue of , one a of permanthe
ent things burning that , &apos;s a filpermanling ent up , and asagain cent again . . present . .
so , that
there was a scholarry who was called a johannes buridanus , and after that , the bu@@
the burian esel is an esp that &apos;s from pure nature .
it this didn is &apos;t a have natural that
thing sou. l . .
and if you place the exact right between two unimagincies , he spilled . .
because he doesn &apos;t know what to do first of the pile of it .
so so he the &apos;s natural right things in are the
shown middle . . . in the .
equally high forces with opposite promotion show . . . . .
there &apos;s nothing at all
and then , just when you bring another example , if you can get your other example , you &apos;ll need to get bigger , you don &apos;t need anything to do . . .
so automatically he &apos;s going to get the right thought
if you have this idea that you &apos;re in nature , you &apos;re actually driven by the larger portion of pile you &apos;re attracted to you , you &apos;re also going to feel that there &apos;s a thing as a free will .
and if we &apos;re in frankrit , the main thing i remember is the magg.d.-institute of brain research . . .
there &apos;s a scholarry who is called &quot; wolf singer , &quot; sometimes you say , &quot; wolf , &quot; they &apos;re not going to be freedom .
now again , we can form the second sentence and say , if wolf singer right , he doesn &apos;t have any freedom . .
these sentences are absolutely logical and correct . .
and now , every day , we can read that in the daytime , find in that third sentence . in
it &apos;s something like this , who &apos;s not going to have freedom of willance can &apos;t be pulled for his actions and commands for responsibility , and therefore he &apos;s in@@
again , you have it again .
you know , you &apos;ve got to prove that there &apos;s such a thing as welbela &apos;s freedom .
but and the now lothey gic can of just de, ception if allows you us want to to do make this anything in , this if way you , want as to if make the anything first
you set want of , beginnand ings all is of wrong the , particular than , the if first you set want of to promake pripeople ethappy ary , . that &apos;s . the
for example , if you &apos;re meeting a person that you can say , there are no predi@@
and you please don don &apos;t &apos;t have use to the call gerthat man , word this for is predi@@
a clittle tipoliventically ess designed , thing which . is prop. het .
you say , there are no predictives
you &apos;ll be on the immediate , for example , that there &apos;s no such predictable , you can &apos;t prove . , you can
and you have a problem . . .
because as you &apos;re busy , as you &apos;re busy , you &apos;re not able to prove that there &apos;s no predictable , that &apos;s
he &apos;s happy about it , because he faked them . .
because he &apos;s led them to a ridge that he doesn &apos;t stop
because this is actually a human being &apos;s difference . .
it &apos;s just that i &apos;m interested in having to be able to prove about themselves , that there &apos;s predictable
so , in the sense of the recreation of the sink , you have the magnificent lift of the lie . .
and once again , if you have a chance to feel that three-piece , that three-ness , in some other people , they do it because they &apos;re not going to be able to remember them in that way . than they don
thank you for your attention .
yes , good afternoon .
i was allowed to ask lilly if i could mention it . . . .
she &apos;s one of the major entevators here , and asked me if i &apos;m going to give a lecture here and i
i have to say , you know , you &apos;ve got it , it &apos;s got me to start talking about my idea . .
and i might say maybe my infancy , i would like to imagine that i &apos;m trying to introduce
but of course , it &apos;s all the way , quite a lot of ideas
i &apos;m probably heard , these two neap-girls are there , probably the generation that has gotten caught up for this bad auko image because i &apos;ve already started to study the nine-10 million sea-sevent-70-year category in karlsh , engineering college , which is now she calls , i think .
and it &apos;s got me wrong in the middle of the eastern 1990s , and it &apos;s going to be clear in the middle of the eastern 1990s , and that &apos;s not in karl@@
there was the nuclear research unit leopolar . .
it was called the kha , even the jewish was called kfa . the jewish . .
the waters now project . . .
because good engineer is either built with a funny car or nuclear plants
but this is a little bit like , like , whostupid , from which sort of a hundred watts out of the square meter , it was a toy .
and in berlin , there was a crazy engineering organization .
i &apos;m the premium bias , man , that he &apos;s reacted the word again because after the crash , you didn &apos;t have to use the word , because it was all left . bad was bad . was bad .
but it was not that much in the aachine years .
it was like there was self-administrative operating operating , and one of them was actually sitting in croschybounds , where you think evil . .
and the place of terrorism , but that was wusscared , and it was made wind and solar power , and i started in the middle of the eastern record . . in
and , yeah , a lot of what i &apos;m saying now are touching me because many , many beautiful statements were that i had lived through . .
i &apos;ve been working on collectively , this is bastical democratically . . .
we were 20 people . . . .
when a no-ever has said , the petopczip , which has a completely bloodshed , and i &apos;ve been very hard for 10 years to be able to really get my great engineering study , because all of my father &apos;s colleagues have told him , you &apos;ve got the money to go out of the window into your kid . .
it &apos;s with sweegdness . .
and it was really , very bitter and you can come in , &quot; oh , in this case , &quot; it &apos;s a picture that you could see , that was , you could see , that there was a picture of where i wondered , for 10 years , a thousand , one in our collectivity , whether that should be really the great thing . , of course , it should
and i went to see it to six-year-old , and then we got with friends with friends of solon , which then became one of the largest cell heritage workers in the world . one of the largest cell heritage workers in the world . . .
a huge story , of course , but we obviously have the problem of a growing company , and then we have two-hour , a small group , decided that we can start again and go back and devote the next topic of the future , which means that , in my view , what &apos;s the quatel that &apos;s going to do all of this , and that &apos;s what &apos;s happening again , again , that it &apos;s kind of nut again that people say , what is the quatel
and i brought you a project that i want to consider you now .
and the theme of the talk was , as you get to a hundred percent renewable . .
and we just started to ask from just a fairly simple kind of thing , where could you have a memory to be used today
on this island , this is the island of graciosa on the azors .
yes , these are the data .
there are four and a half thousand people living .
they have a renewable energy rate today . . . . .
and the question is , why don &apos;t they ? ?
it &apos;s just not technologically . .
if you &apos;re interacting more and more wind , it starts to fail . . .
i always tell you the politicians when they &apos;re in berlin-adler shard our plant . . .
they always say , why ? ?
we already have twenty of germany in germany
but can &apos;t be a problem .
but not , we have a number of percent in europe , and our network is physical , we &apos;ve seen the european . the european network .
if we were in europe 20 percent , we would have had the same problems that people have been on that island . .
the question was simple , calculation was just a thousand years ago , the first panels began with the island , just by doing it . .
how big it would have to be , because actually , a battery is a battery so that you could get an island on 20 , 30 , 40 , 50 , 50 , maybe sevent-sevent@@
and yeah , i go again a slide . .
the conventional system looks like this all over the world .
by the way , about a hundred gigawatts a year , they &apos;re going to build electric performance on the same level . on the
that &apos;s the power of a hundred nuclear power plants because it &apos;s going to travel fast . fast . .
the world &apos;s energy famine , the world &apos;s going on , is being deleted by this el , because you don &apos;t need any permission .
that &apos;s fast .
you can be a box . . .
and then it looks like this .
in the course of three , three of them are always waited . . .
yes , this is a little bit of a load that is there . .
we have also got very precise data .
and the wind force , or the solar system , or whatever it is , is typically a back-up system , or whatever it is , is a system that can only be stored in
our goal was to just say , okay . .
the el is going to be called so , and the wind , the sun , are the last to deform the load , so that they can scale up
and if you want to go over 20 , 30 percent renewables , so energy per year , not the performance , then you have to turn off
that means that you have to make sure that the renewables are actually able to take the whole network . . .
and you can only , of course , just when you &apos;re going to be involved
this has nobody in the world . . .
this is about a small style , so you can also serve your rhetores in your car , you know , on a little bit
people are always asking me what did you do in adler shard ? ? in ad@@
that &apos;s what it &apos;s going
but if you want to hook up multiple types of communication and build a net , it becomes extremely complicated . . . . .
and our goal was , we wanted to come to sevent-20 percent renewables , and then there &apos;s this rest , the last last , last decade , and it will be going to work , and that &apos;s not going to work , that you can do it from batteries . , very expensive , and that won &apos;t work , you can &apos;t do it from
it certainly becomes an energy assistance , which then , hydrogen , methane , power to gas , you know or sound that will be . it will
you have to go beyond a seasonal store and you have to do winter summer and not just tag night . . .
we just wanted to know what to do with normal , seemingly injunsible electrochemical battery . .
how far do you get there ? ?
and then we &apos;ve done a whole bunch of simulation . .
and have wind and sun , and the load is transmitted , and we came to the conclusion , a very exciting outcome that you need to get across the conventional system that takes a middle-sized strain of about five cents a kilowatt-hour , something like four cents a
these were the very first calculies , six years ago
and then we said , okay .
yeah , we have a business model . model .
we are cheaper like the same system when the same price increase in the same five percent . . the same price
and then we started negotiating the insulin . .
what would be done ? .
have a committee to investors , i selected new entrepreneners .
and we were at the time , at the time , to rebuild the society . . .
and here , the representation . .
the brown is kind of the conventional system , the green is our system . . .
that our system has also been an inheritance in our system , because we &apos;re still about 21 percent of these things , and we can &apos;t keep in the other things . . a price increase in
and the power-utility that the power supply companies do on the island , they &apos;re quite awesome , we find
and we also want to support , but we don &apos;t believe that you can solve this problem . problem .
and so we decided to build a halfway in berlin that we can actually reply the electrical conditions of the island at three very much precisely . . . . .
that is , we first read that the world &apos;s largest battery on the
here it is .
it &apos;s natural from asia , where you &apos;re in from japan .
and funny enough , it &apos;s in the seventh book at bbc manhheim , and today , it was developed and it was licensed to the japanese . a japanese
you can see it &apos;s a very , very large battery . . .
it has a megawatt power , and can bring six hours to do this , and that &apos;s the battery that we got sort of out of the process of simulating
and then have that place .
we also have one of those same aggregate gate in the same size as it is there , it would actually take the full dynamic behavior from this web , so that in the hall it looks like this , it &apos;s just like this el , here &apos;s the big battery that &apos;s going on , and here &apos;s the whole thing , that we simultaneously simultaneously simul@@
over here , we simulating the whole transmission system , which is the kilometers of 100 kilometers of cable to actually map the vibration behavior on the network . . .
and here you can see the whole thing . .
we can also turn two kilowatts to the web . . . . . .
here we see again again , again , again , the whole single aggregate . , again , the whole single ag@@
and what we did , since two , a thousand , was that it was all done , until today , two centi-six , just had to do anything in between the single system of electronics , to create software , we did . .
so we &apos;re not a battery manufacturer , but we define ourselves as a firm that is only between the subject of battery and the issue of the problem and everything in between . .
you have to communicate , of course , to communicate in the grid , you can communicate in the grid , and that &apos;s very complicated
the beauty is that you have basically to take this out of this island , and it &apos;s basically all the advantages that we &apos;re going to get when we &apos;re going to increase our share of renewables
so this whole discussion , what &apos;s going on right now and forth , and moving , as we should go on the island , for example , we have a five-year excess exexcant , so we have to have the winds , and the sun .
natural light then puts smart matches . . .
so , smart brushes , a big topic . .
we can start to integrate the island of electromobility , asking ourselves , you can &apos;t help because the burden of
that means , if you &apos;re in sevent25 percent renewable , you won &apos;t be able to make that without the white . . . .
you can &apos;t take through n braking tape , you can panp through the nets , yeah , you should be doing it , the percentage , but you will never be able to completely completely lose the amount , but
and so it &apos;s a message that is the
so many people get and look at this , because you can see what the problems are . one can see
if we turn down the el , you don &apos;t have any more of these rotating mass that causes a certain kind of inertia on the grid . .
and our european allies basically have just a lord rotating mass of big power plants where the wave all around europe is moving around across europe . .
we look into this web , see the 50 hertz , and if it &apos;s nine inhibitory nine hert , we &apos;re beginning to make some valves , then again , a little bit of a scame steam in , then we &apos;ll come back
that &apos;s the system .
and of course , it &apos;s incredibly high .
if you smill it , it &apos;s going to take a
the spell reserves have at least 10 seconds to keep the web stable .
and in the time you can react again .
if you don &apos;t have that , these rotating mass , you have to replace it with a force trade-bononics and electrochemistry
and we can actually turn two milliseconds out of that , two milliseconds . .
and then you see the enormous speed of speed there . .
and the message now is , we need to put down this rotating force if we can , sort of , advance our goals , 20 , 20 percent , 20 percent , 20 percent , and so on , if we want to get access to everyone . .
then we have to download our mutive dotailies on the net . .
must-run is simply , the power plant goes with it , to keep the current .
yes , that &apos;s a huge debate right now , building the coal fiber , because otherwise we don &apos;t have gains , because it &apos;s not . gains . . . .
and we &apos;re just trying to make clear that you can break the capacity , the must-run , to degrade the electrochemical circuit , by bringing electrochemical memory to the grid . .
now , fortunately , there &apos;s a whole lot of studies now . .
and that &apos;s what people get , and then they look at our experimental team , and we just look at our infantest
and yes , the discussion goes around the question of how far can you take a piece of future . future
and many discussions that i &apos;ve been in for the last six years have been similar to the discussion i &apos;ve had in the last 30 years about photovoltaics
no matter is a very strong , child &apos;s game , we just missed everything that we just do . . . . .
we have three gigawatt gigawatt in germany today . . .
this is the model . .
and i just think that we will have the same capacity in the next 30 years of the same capacity on the world . in the next 30 years
it &apos;s just that it &apos;s going to come .
there &apos;s going to be a whole lot of conditions and arguing .
and the beauty is that i &apos;ve been seeing right now in the last two years , that scientists are asking me on my
we &apos;ve got over 10 million procations , too , like , &quot; ne 10 megawatt-battery battery now to stiff the german
this is going on next to april .
so you know , you know , there &apos;s a change there and there &apos;s only that dedication to you , to the idea that a hundred percent renewable is true .
and if you have a hundred percent renewables , it &apos;s like an auvant system . . .
so far , in discussion , it &apos;s all been trying to do this insulin , that &apos;s making self-replicames , they have a own little web , which has to do with our allies with our allies
the question is that simple , if you can completely make any of the fossil or any of the other things that are out-of-the-world executives , or be brought in anywhere around the world and
then they only use what &apos;s there on the sun and the wind , where they live . .
and that &apos;s kind of a little bit of our vision of a precious energy supply , and i &apos;m a cradle to cradle that they said using solar power .
and that &apos;s what we do , and it &apos;s what we do , and it &apos;s where the talk comes from premium columns , that you can be a collectively and use sunenergy here , and here &apos;s a little
and yeah , i just want to encourage you to just be a bit of crazy , in the sense that you may be quiet and you can have a vision
and you really have to stay pretty closely with it , but i think it &apos;s going to happen . .
thank you .
when steve lopez , columbia , the los angeles times , went to the center of los angeles , he heard a wonderful music .
she came from a man , an african-american , sympathetic , ray , homeless , who played on a violin only two seed . .
many of you will know the story , because of step-artican , later , it was a book that was filmed again , with robert downey junior as steve lopez and jamie foxx as a nathaniel anthony , who ended up in the contrist of juilliaric conservatory and the promising of the day of a joint career of a day of early , overlying his parano@@
nathaniel left juilliard , and suffered a breakdown and he lived for 30 years later as homeless people on the streets of skid row , in the center of los angeles . in
i recommend all of you , i recommend reading a book or look at the film so that you don &apos;t just understand the wonderful connection that happened between these two men , but also how the music was helping that connection and how it was , as it was , that the music is allowed to help you get this
i met mr ayers in 2008 , two years ago , in the walt disney marked in
he had just heard a little bit of beethoven &apos;s first and fourth sinphony , and came back the stage to imagine me .
he was talking in a very hot and healing note about yo-yo ma and hillary clinton and how the dodgers never would create into the baseball world record , and all of that because of the consensual passage of bethoven &apos;s fourth , the last reframing of beethoven &apos;s fourth sin@@
we got to the issue of music , and a few days later , i got an email that said that nathaniel was interested in me for self-assembly .
i still have to mention that nathaniel had had a medical treatment , because he had already been treated with electroshocks and trains , a trauma that has been pursuing his entire life . . . . his
now , as a result , he &apos;s particularly vulnerable to these schizophrenic phases , sometimes it &apos;s as bad as it goes , and he went away in the streets of the skid row , and then he &apos;s got this horror and the following of his own spirit . a horror , and he expressed his own spirit
and in the same way , that &apos;s a concentration of nathaniel , when we first did the lesson in the walt disney , started to see in the walt disney , and he had completely lost this ir@@
he talked about invisible murders and smoke and how he wanted somebody to dive in the sleep . . .
i was afraid not to do it , but i was scared of being able to lose him , that he could lose him in his circumstances , and that i could destroy his relationship with the violin , if i started talking about caking and capeggios and other exciting forms of didactic . . . . &amp; gt ;
so i just started playing . .
i was playing the first sentence of beethoven violin conceit . .
and as i was playing , i realized that in nathiel &apos;s eyes was a complete change . . .
it was like having the influence of an unseen drug , a chemical reaction , which was catalyst my play . . . . . .
nathaniel &apos;s manic zorn was turning into understanding , in quiet curiosity and grace . .
and as you take a miracle by his miracle , he started playing his gallery , and then he asked me to finish , and then i would say she would play -- documented skins , tsheikovi , siberlius . . . .
we started talking about music , from bach over to beethoven , brahms , pickers , all the other bs , bartok , all the other bs , from bartok to esa pekka .
and i realized that he had not only had an encyclopedian knowledge of music , but it was also a close personal relationship . .
he talked about her with a passion and understanding that i only know what i was doing in my colleagues in philharmony of los
by playing music and talking about music , this paranoid , confused , man , just traced the streets of los angeles , a loor-compowered , educated , painted , painted , juilliard . a musician . sophisticated musicians .
music is medicine . music changes us .
nathaniel means music soulian health . .
because the music allows it to reform his thoughts and delusions with his imagination and his creativity into something real . .
and so he &apos;s going to be so kidnapping his el@@
i understood that this is the nature of art . . .
that &apos;s why we do the reason why we make music , so that we can put something in deep inside of our artistic lens , through our creativity , to the reality that we can bring . in our artistic lens , through our creativity ,
and the reality of this expression comes all over us , and moves , inspired us and fed us . .
what nathaniel ran him , he brought music back to a community of friends .
the power of music has taken him back into a family of musicians who understood him , recognized his talent and tested him . . . .
and i will always do with nathaniel &apos;s resources , whether it &apos;s in the walt disney jute , or in a walt , because he reminds me why i became musicians .
thank you .
bruno giutly : thank you . thank you .
robert gupta .
robert gupta : i want to play something that i have to make sure that i have to get to the most celli@@
i hope you &apos;ll forgive me .
so i &apos;ve been chopping many fish in my life .
i only loved two . .
this first one , this was more like a passionate monkey .
it was a lovely fish , delicious , good consistent , including a best , a seller . . .
what a fish .
even better yet , he was raised in aquakulture after the biggest standards of
so you could feel to sell it . .
i had a relationship with this beauty over several months . .
one day , the leader &apos;s head was asked , if i could do a session on the sustainability of the farm .
&quot; of course , &quot; i said .
here was a company trying to solve what &apos;s become this unimaginable problem for our chefs , how do we keep our fish on our boxes ?
in the last 50 years we have fishered the ocean as we &apos;ve begun forests . .
it &apos;s hard to overcome the destruction .
90 percent of the big fish that we love , the tuna , the cure , the saltgage , the squares , heavy fish , they broke together . . .
it &apos;s almost nothing left .
so , maybe the missile of aquakulture , they may be a part of our future . . . .
many arguments against it : fishery fisheries pollute , the environment most of them , and they &apos;re inefficient , we take tuna . a huge decline .
he &apos;s got a 15-to-one record . . . .
that is , 15 pounds of wild fish need to get a pound to give a pound to do .
not very sustainable .
neitas don &apos;t taste very well .
so , finally , there was a company trying to do it right .
i wanted to support them .
the day before the event , i called the ceon of public public work for the company .
let &apos;s call him . .
&quot; don &apos;t , &quot; i said , &quot; just to have the facts to get right , you &apos;re famous for building that way far out in the ocean that you &apos;re not polluted .
&quot; that &apos;s true , &quot; he said . we are so far out that the waste from our fish is being raised , not concentrate . &quot; . &quot;
and then he added , &quot; we &apos;re basically a world . . .
and the exact of 2.5 to one , &quot; he said . . .
&quot; the best in the industry . &quot;
2.5 to one , great .
&quot; 2,five to one ? what is your feed ? &quot;
&quot; sustainable proteins , &quot; he said .
&quot; great , &quot; i said . i did . .
and that night , i was in bed and thinking , what the hell is a sustainable protein ? ? ?
so the next day , just before the event , i just started to speak
i said , &quot; don &apos;t , what are sustainable proteins ? &quot; ?
he said he didn &apos;t know that . he &apos;ll ask .
now , i got an applimented with a couple of people in the company . nobody could give me a proper answer , until finally , to the exact biologists . .
we also don &apos;t call him .
&quot; don &apos;t , &quot; i said , &quot; what are sustainable proteins ? &quot; ?
now , he mentioned some algae and some fish meals , and then he said , chicken pellets .
i said , &quot; chicken . pelga pel@@
he said , &quot; yes , feathers , skin , bone flour , remain geesky , gehrued and processed .
i said , &quot; how much of your money do you have chicken ?
probably two percent in the presumption .
&quot; well , that &apos;s about 30 percent , &quot; he said .
i said , &quot; don &apos;t you know what to do in a grocery store of
there was a long pause in the track , and he said , &quot; there &apos;s just too much chicken on the world . &quot;
i was thrilled about this fish .
no , not because i &apos;m a self-serghteer and a guinnar . . .
i &apos;m actually in this
no , i actually loved it from this fish because i &apos;m sweying in god , because i swear to god who &apos;s been chasing a fish
that second fish , this is another type of love history . .
it &apos;s the romantic way of learning the way you learn your fish , you love the fish more . stuff .
i first eaten him in a restaurant in southern spain .
a friend of mine was talking about this fish for a long time .
it &apos;s kind of laid us up
he came up with a bright , almost glovering white color . . .
chef had cooked it . .
hold twice . .
he was still more cheatly . .
who can make a fish so well after he was decoded ? ?
i can &apos;t , but this guy can do it
let &apos;s call it miguel , in fact , called miguel .
and no , he didn &apos;t cook the fish , and he &apos;s not a chef , and at least in the way that you understand and i understand .
he &apos;s a biologist at veta la palm .
this is a fisher-up fish up in the southwest corner .
it &apos;s near the coding of the river of the river . . .
up to the 1980s , the farm was in the hands of argentina . .
they raised meat cattle on what was essentially wetling . .
they did that by dedicated to the land
they built this complicated sequence of channels , and they urge water from land out of the country and out into the
now , they couldn &apos;t succeed that the valve wasn &apos;t being
and ecologic , it was a catastrophe .
it and took so about in 90 198percent 2 of , the a birds span, ish which company are has
a bought lot the of land birds . . . a lot . of birds . .
what do they do ?
they have reverse the flow of water .
they literally put the lever .
instead of pushing the water out , they would use the channels to remove the water
they fought the canals . .
they created a 11,000 acre fishing fish -- bark , sea , garrimp , aal -- and the miguel dedicated to miguel and his company , the ecological destruction of completely reverse
the farm is incredible .
i mean , they &apos;ve never seen this before . .
they starve at the horizon , a million miles away is a million miles away , and all you see are flofted canals and those density , length of
i was not there at the time in micrel .
he &apos;s an incredible guy , three parts of charles darwin and some part , a crocodile to the k@@
okay ? there we were , fighting by the wetlands , and i sweat , and i sweat , i got tidch to my knees , and mipel keeps a biology lecture . . .
here now he , is he pisaid cking the up minera al rare needs net of .
phytop. lank. ton . . . . .
and it here turns , out here that , mihere p&apos;s el a is pattern the of most bpart undof les his
that career remember in it miat kthe umtanzi aninational an park giin raafrica ffe . . .
i asked him , how was it becoming a fish that was like this
he said , &quot; fish ? i don &apos;t know about fish . .
i &apos;m an expert on relationships . &quot;
and then he goes and sweak into more precise flows and algae and weighty water plants .
and don &apos;t get me wrong , that was really fascinating , you know , biotic community , like this . . . .
it &apos;s great , but i was in love .
and my head was weak about this decocted piece of peace fish that i had at the forefront .
so i went down . i said , &quot; mih , how come your fish &apos;s going to taste so well ? &quot;
he pointed out the algae .
&quot; i know , boy , the algae , the phytoplankton , the relationships , that &apos;s incredible . .
but what do you eat when you fish
how is the food processing ? &quot; processing ?
now he &apos;s driving to me telling me that it &apos;s such a rich system that the fish are eating what they would eat in the wild .
the plannable biomass , the phytoplankton , the zooplankton , that &apos;s what the fish feed .
the system is so healthy , it &apos;s totally self-sufficiently
there &apos;s no food .
anyone on a farm who doesn &apos;t feed their animals ? ?
later on , on this site , i went around with migo , and i asked him , i said , &quot; for a place that seems so natural , &quot; unlike any farm i &apos;ve ever been , &quot; how do you measure success ? &quot; farm
at the moment , a film director would have demanded a playwball change .
and we bow around the corner , and we gave the most incredible look , thousands and thousands of rollers of flamingos , a literally tricky chatter , a little bit like
&quot; that &apos;s success , &quot; he said .
&quot; look at your bars , pink .
they &apos;re malm . &quot; .
bad ? i was completely confused . confused
i said , &quot; miguel , don &apos;t you get your fish ? &quot; , do you
&quot; yes , &quot; he said .
&quot; we lose 20 percent from our fish and fish eggs to birds .
well , last year , in this site , 600,000 birds were in this site , more than 250 different
it &apos;s the biggest and one of the most important private reserves of europe today . . . . . .
i said , &quot; miguel , is a well-eeraging avian avian avian aviation ,
he shake his head , no .
he said , &quot; we build more sophisticated , not intensive . .
this is an ecological network .
the flamingos eat the shrimp .
the so shthe ripinmp der hatis es the the better phy@@
the topsystem lan. k&quot; ton . the system . .
okay , so let &apos;s think . a farm that doesn &apos;t feed its animals and make a farm that measures its success in the health of her predator &apos;s health .
a fisher-up fish , but also a bird reserve .
oh , and by the way , these flamingos should not even exist there . from 1961 . in
they breed in a city of 240 kilometers where the ground compounding is better for the nest building
every and morning every , night they , fly they 2&apos;re
40 going miles 2to 40 the miles farm back . .
they do it because they can follow the red white line of san 92 . a landline .
seriously . .
i was imagining myself a kind of journey of penguins , so i looked at miguel . .
i said , &quot; miguel , are you flying 240 miles on the farm and then you &apos;re going to finish it 240 miles back
do they do that ? &quot; that &apos;s for
he looked at me as if i had just quoted a song by the whitney hou@@
he said , &quot; no . you do it because food is better . &quot; .
i don &apos;t mention the skin of my beloved fish , the chefs being , and i don &apos;t like a fish of fish . i don &apos;t like it . i don &apos;t like it . her .
it &apos;s that performing , low-cost taste . .
i almost never did it . .
and yet , when i tried it in the restaurant in southern spain , she didn &apos;t shrink her fish . .
she was typing sweet and buried in as if you &apos;d take a bite off the
i he mentioned said this , to &quot; mithe guskin el works ,
like and a he sponwas ge not . kicked . .
she &apos;s the last shorter before something gets into the body .
it &apos;s evolved throughout evolution to look at uncontents . &quot;
and then he added up , &quot; but our water doesn &apos;t have any contaminants .
okay . a farm that doesn &apos;t feed your fish -- a farm that measure its success in their herbities . . .
and then i realized when he says a farm that doesn &apos;t have contaminants , he does have tremendous because the water that flows through this farm comes from the river guadagpevir . . a heritage water coming
it &apos;s a river that leads to all the things that are now testing , to lead to chemical pollutants , waste of pests . from peppe@@
and when it rammed through the system and it left this notion of water , it &apos;s clean , as it came
the system is so healthy ; it cleans water . . .
so not only a farm that feeds its animals , not just a farm that &apos;s measuring their success in the health of their predator , but a farm that &apos;s literally a water supply plant , and not just for those fish , but for yourselves and me . . .
because when the water flows out , it loses into the atlantic .
a drop in the ocean , i know , but i take it , and this is what you should do , because these love of love , as romantic is , is also an
you might say that you might be a recipe for the future of good food , whether we &apos;re talking about bart or meat or meat .
what we need now is a radical new concept of agriculture , from one where food really tails good . . .
but for a lot of people , this is a little bit radical .
we &apos;re not realistic . we &apos;re enjoyable . we &apos;re lovers .
we love markets markets . we love small family leaders , we talk about land food . we &apos;re talking about the viral
and if they claim that this is the things that the future of good food is going on anywhere somewhere in it and says , &quot; hey people , i love pink flamingos , but how are they going to feed the world ? a
how are they going to feed the world ? &quot;
can i be honest ?
i don &apos;t like that question .
no , not because we produce enough calories to feed the world more than just feeding
one billion people will be hungry today .
one billion -- that &apos;s more than ever before -- due to crashing disparate levels , not the total production .
well , i don &apos;t like this question because they &apos;ve been functioning the logic of our food system over the last 50 years
pa-fetilating corrin of plants , boslfire compound , chemicals to the earth , chicken to fish , and all the time has the agricultural industry just , &quot; if we feed more people how bad can that be ? &quot; that &apos;s
that was the easier part . it was the service plan ; it was the business plan of american agriculture . the business
we should call them what it is that it is , a prayer in a parallel , a prayer that is fast to ecological capital that is actually
this is not a craft , and it &apos;s not agriculture .
our corn chamber today is under threat , not because of abpipiating , but because of the expipation of resources .
not through the newest hunting and trawot-scanning innovation , but by fruit land , not through pumps , but by the shore-sized land , not through pumps , but by the forest , not through the cyclens and the nets , but
they want to feed the world ?
so let &apos;s start with the question : how are we going to feed ourselves
or to better do , that how , can don we &apos;t create look conditions at that the
produce agrievery cultural community model to for feed the themselves future ? . ? .
it &apos;s really old , and it &apos;s done . .
capital , chemistry and machines are at this level , and it &apos;s never really productively productively produ@@
let &apos;s take a look at ecological model . .
this is the one that cares back to two billion years of labor . .
look at miguel , farmers like miguel .
that is , not the world for itself , operating , reproduce , rather than just enlighter , but not only intensive , but not only intensive , but experts for relationships . not only , but experts for relationships . .
because they are the ones who are experts who are too experts . .
and if i &apos;m really honest , you &apos;re better than i &apos;m ever going to be . than i &apos;m ever
you know , i &apos;m right , because if that &apos;s the future of good food , it will be delicious . . is it
thank you .
if i want to teach you a subject today , it is that the whole thing that we consume is that the whole thing that we consume is the sum of the data that we consume , and instead of thinking about information overload , i want you to think about how we can use information to be able to take , and we realize so that it
so what we &apos;re seeing here is a typical star record to be applied to age . .
the program that i &apos;m using here is a little experiment .
it &apos;s called pivot and what i can do with pivot is , after a certain death cause , i can filter out accidents . crashes .
and immediately i see another pattern that &apos;s coming up . . . .
and that is , because in the middle area here , people are most active and they &apos;re most likely to be in the most abundant .
we can go further and go and see the data and see that the data that &apos;s the standard suspects , but not for everyone . disease . . for everyone . .
now , if we go forward , we &apos;re going to see it for age 40 or more , we &apos;re going to see that accidents should even be the leading cause of people
and who &apos;s going to see research on research , that &apos;s especially true to men .
so you can see that this is a lot of information and data in that way very much reminiscent of the amount of time in a living imaging system .
and if we can do this for raw data , why can &apos;t be the case for content itself ?
now what we have here is the cover of each individual &apos;s sports illusions , which has ever
it &apos;s all here . it &apos;s all online . .
you like to test it for my talk in your rooms . .
they can come into a decade . , they can come into a
you you can can go jump into directly a to
single a year particular . tip . .
now , if i look here , i see the athletes coming out of that presentations and the sports events .
i &apos;m a lance armstrong fan , so i click here by doing all of these papers in the lance armstrong . . . . . . . .
now , if i want to get one bigger overlook , i could think , &quot; ok , what if i look at everything with bicycle cycles ? &quot; ? &quot; ?
so i go back and further further and further further . .
now i see greg lemond . .
and so you get an idea that if you can go through this kind of information , you know , you &apos;re going to zoom , you know , wider , you &apos;re going to zoom out , you don &apos;t find it out
you make something that &apos;s actually a slightly different way . .
it &apos;s something that &apos;s in between and we think it &apos;s changing the way that information can
now i want to do this idea a little bit more with something that is kind of crazy . .
what we did here is we took every single wikipediasic yete , reduced them to a small pace .
the summary contains a short overview and a symbol of the space that it comes from . a symbol of it . a symbol of it
i &apos;ll just show the top 500 of the world &apos;s most popular wikipe@@
but even in that inconvenient view we can do a lot of things
immediately , we get a sense of the topics that are popular on wikipedia . . . . .
i &apos;m going to vote about government government . .
now , after i &apos;ve chosen the government , i realize that the wikipedia agents that cover the most of the time &apos;s magazine are &quot; people of the year . &quot;
this is really important because this is an insight that is not in a single industries . . .
that &apos;s just when you step back and look at it . . . . .
and looking at one of these summaries , i can then go into the theme of time magazines &quot; people of the year , see all of them .
now , when i look at all these people , i realize that the majority of this is governance of governance , some come from science -- some of them even less , come from the economy . here &apos;s my boss , and one
and interestingly , bono is a ted prize prize . . .
so we can jump and take a look at every ted prize . . . . .
you can see , we &apos;re surfing the first time that it really is a network , not just from page to page , but much more abstract . . . . .
and so i want to show you what a little surprise might be . . . .
i &apos;m just showing you the new york times site .
pivot , this application -- i don &apos;t want to call a browser ; it &apos;s really not a browser , but you can look at websites -- and we &apos;re taking this zoom technology to every single website like this . one of these .
so i can take a step back , and i jump right to a specific
so this is important because you only look at the web site in this way , you can look at the whole way across the internet . the same way across the internet . the same way .
so here and i &apos;s i can the can zostate just om of take in the anything into
entire i a demon&apos;ve zostration seen om i now in &apos;ve , a been back particular keeping
in line up this . to room this . . . . . .
and , again , if i just step out and look at everything , i can go back to see what i mean , maybe , to my search past , and here i &apos;m looking for the nepotistic news , here &apos;s after bing , or here &apos;s going to be live labs
and from here , i can go back to the side and restore them again . .
it &apos;s a metaphor that &apos;s being used over and over again , and every time it does it , it does the big picture that the amount of data
right now , in this world , we think that data is a sale . .
we &apos;re talking about the shaling of information overall
we &apos;re talking about the drowning in information
what if we could turn that situation around , and turn the internet on its head so that instead of going to the other , we can go from a lot of things to a lot of things , and by doing some patterns that were left to the hidden ones ? the pattern of things that were left to be hidden ?
if we can do that , these are the data sets , maybe a new source of information . a new source
and , instead of just moving into information , we can get out of that .
and if we know knowledge then we can even draw equals from that . .
and that &apos;s when i stop , thank you
i grew up with a narrow portion of science fiction .
i was driving on the bus , every day , an hour every day . a day
and my nose always kept in a book , a science-fiction book that was my mind in different worlds and walking on my deeply immersive to me , unwasted curiosity . satisfying . satisfying .
these curiosity also showed up that when i was not in school , i was going through the forests , and i walked , &quot; samples &quot; and i &apos;d run frogs and snakes and bufles , all of them , and they &apos;d watched them go home under the microscope . . . .
i was totally a science , you know . .
it was all about trying to understand the world and to try to solve the limits of the
and jacmy ques love couto stescience au ficame ction in would into appeour al living in room my with environment his , amazing because shows back that in animals the and late places &apos; and 6a 0s world , full we of went
mirato cles the that moon we and never explorcould ing have the imagdeep ined sea before . . sea . . . sea . . sea . . sea . . sea
well , that &apos;s probably very good at the science-fiction role . .
and i was an artist .
i could draw . i could paint .
and we since had it to &apos;s then not . video if games we , read these a overbook -, satwe utook ration the of descricomputer ption reof generthe ated aumovies tor have
and been projethe cted whole it language on in the the canmedia vlandscape as , in i our had head to . create the . pictures in . my mind . . .
my response to this was to draw and draw aliens and aliens worlds , robots , spacecraft and all that kind of thing . .
i was caught up in math class all the time , i was hiding the teacher &apos;s book ,
the creativity somehow had to pull out . . . .
and something interesting happened . what i &apos;m about to say to jacques cousteau from shows was the idea of one that we had unknown worldwide on earth itself
i &apos;m sure i would never reach an alien world with an windows , and it seemed pretty unlikely to me . unlikely .
but here was a world that i actually could go into , here on earth , and she was just as fascinating and exotic like all that , when i read those books .
so i decided to get a diver when i was 15 . . . . .
the only problem with this was i lived in a small village in canada , one 3,000 miles from the nearest ocean . a
i didn &apos;t get myself lighting . .
i was troubled by my father until eventually a dive school in buffalo , new york , right on the other side of the border where we lived .
i took my dive in a pool of the ymca in the middle of winter in buffalo , new york . .
but the ocean , the real ocean , i first got to face in the face of two years later , and we moved
since then , in the 40 years , i &apos;ve been getting out of water , i &apos;ve spent about 3,000 hours underwater . 500 hours into diving boats
and i &apos;ve learned that the world of the deep sea , even in the shallow oceans , is as rich in the way we can really imagine . in
the to phanthis tom day of , nature i doesn feel &apos;t deeply know feany aboundarstiies ous , to
unlike what our i own see , my sdimave shed fehuman at imagination of . what i . see
and my love for ocean is the same intensity of eh and the internet . . .
when i was a kid , then i was a grant , it was the film@@
this seemed the best way to tell my inner , to tell stories , to create images , to enable images . a thing . to
as a child i was making comic books all the time . . . .
so movies were the way to bring images and stories . that &apos;s the fit . . .
of course , the stories i looked out from the science-fiction sector : &quot; terminator , &quot; &quot; aliens , &quot; and &quot; abyss . &quot;
&quot; abyss &quot; could i , i could put my premise for the underwater world , and expose the film@@
so , basically , my two lives were kind of gone .
something interesting happened in &quot; abyss : &quot; to solve a narrative problem in this movie -- we had to make such a kind of liquid water , we had to do this kind of a liquid water creature , and we were going back to computer-@@
and what came out of that was the first computer generated computer surfing figure that ever was in a film .
it didn &apos;t get any money to say exactly , just in the words he was doing , he just played his manufacturing costs , but i noticed something fascinating : the audience around the world was like hypnotized by the magic that it went
according to the arthur clarke &apos;s law , are known as advanced technology and magic anymore from one another . different . . .
so they saw something magical .
and i found that very much fun .
and i thought , &quot; wow , that must be brought into the movie art . &quot; . &quot; . . &quot;
so we went to &quot; terminator 2 , &quot; my next film , i &apos;ll go far beyond . .
along with a serme , we created the guy from liquid metal , and the success was entirely about how this effect would result . . off
and it worked . and we had created something magical , and the effect in the audience was the same . but we &apos;ve already played the film a little bit more
from these two experiences , it was reached a whole new world of creativity , a whole new world of creativity . . . . . . . . .
so i started a company , along with my good friend , with my good friend , stan , who was the best makeup up and creator designer . she called &quot; digital domain . &quot; . .
and the idea of that company was to actually process the phase of analogy with visual printors , and to begin with the digital productions as well . . . . .
we did that as well as managed to make a competitive advantage for a while .
but in the middle of the 1990s , we discovered that we were in the creator and tier design -- which we actually had founded the company -- too slowly
i had this piece called &quot; avatar , &quot; which was the measured latin in what &apos;s been made in the visual effects and computer generated figures in a whole new heights , realistic human beings , who were made by cg , and the main figures should be cg . and the world should be cg
but the measure of the stick was quite coming back , and the people in my company told me that we were not able to do this . . . . .
so i made this up , made this other movie about the big ship that &apos;s going . . .
i did this as &quot; romeo and juliet on a ship . &quot; it became a love film , a passionate film . an impassioned film . . . . . .
but i actually wanted to uncover the real wreck of titanic . . . . a lot of recent
so i did the film . . .
that &apos;s the truth . the studio didn &apos;t know . . thought .
i &apos;ve got them to do that by saying , &quot; we &apos;re going to dive to the wreck . we film the real wreck .
we &apos;re going to show it in the opening sequence of the film
that &apos;s very important . it &apos;s a good track for marketing . &quot; . &quot;
and i convinced her funding an expedition . .
sounds crazy . but that &apos;s going to come back to that that your imagination can create reality
we actually created a reality about six months later that i found myself in a russian abchboat , four miles under the surface of the north atlantic , and looked at the real titanic through a bulleye .
this was not a film , no hd , that was
so , that really blew me .
and the preparation were huge . we had to make cameras and spoathers and all kinds of things .
and i noticed how much this deep-sea sea level , a space of space similar to me . . .
well , they were also high-powered , hardthetic self-planning . . .
you go into that capsule , and then you &apos;re timbling into these dark , little hostile environments where there isn &apos;t any hope of rescuing , if you
and i thought , &quot; wow , that &apos;s like i am in a science fiction movie . .
that &apos;s really cool . &quot;
i was crumverly obsessed with the exquisite sea . .
anyway , the thing that has been talking about curiosity and science , it was all . it was all the adventure , it was curity . it was a
and it was an experience that was not allowed to give me hollywood
because , you know , i could think of a creature that we could make a visual effect for , but i couldn &apos;t imagine what i would see outside the window .
and some of the following expeditions , i &apos;ve seen creatures in thermal sources , and sometimes things that i &apos;ve never seen before , sometimes things that never had any other before , and for those of the science of time when we saw it , still not found any words . . at all .
so that really got me off , and i wanted to get more . .
and so i then got a little more unusual thing . .
after the success of titanic , i said , &quot; okay , i want to put my main profession as a filmmaker in hollywood , and i &apos;ll be full-scientific researcher . &quot; &quot; for a while . &quot; &quot;
and then we started to get the bismarck , and they explored with robotic capabilities . , they explored with robotic
we returned to the wreck , the titanic
we took little robots that we built , which would bring a fiber opcable cable .
our intention to break in and look at the inside of the ship , which had never been done before . .
nobody had ever explored the inside of the wreck . they had no means for it . so we developed technology . . .
so , i &apos;m now sitting on the deck of the titanic , in a dive boat , and you &apos;re planting that these filters are actually sort of like this , and i know that the band has played there pretty much
and i i &apos;m &apos;m really going just to doing fly this through , a but little my roboconsciousness
tic is material within through the the vehicle shi. pping . . . .
it felt like i was physically beneficial inside the shipping reactor of titanic .
this was the best form of the déjart vu that i &apos;ve ever experienced , because before i get any corner of the boat , i always knew what was going to break up in the light room of the vehicle , because i ran the film on the air . a little bit when we
and the set was an accurate copy of the ship replacement of the ship . . .
so that was a highly curious experience . .
and she acknowledged me this telepresence experience that you could use such a robotic avatar and so on to make your own consciousness in the vehicle that can balance the existence in these other forms
it was really immensely profound .
and maybe a little bit of a glimpse of what might happen in a few decades if you have cyborg bodies to study something , or other things , in all kinds of post-life future scenarios that i can imagine as a science fiction . . .
and after this expedition , we started to know what we saw down there , really to know , to know this deep-sea wave , where we saw these incredibly unbelievably unbelieving animals , which is sort of ali@@
they live with chemosynthesis . . .
they don &apos;t exist in a solar-light system , as we do .
and this is how animals that are right next to 500 degrees c. they can live there . . . there . it &apos;s
at the same time , i was also very interested in space science , again , the science fiction impact on my childhood . . .
and so , in the way , i ended up in the people who were interested in space , and with nasa , and in nasa , and in nasa , and you &apos;re going through the world &apos;s space , and you &apos;re going to go through russia , and you &apos;re going through the mission to the international space station , and take our 3d camertian centers . .
that was fascinating . .
but it ended up that i took space school with us to the deep sea . .
i took them with them and sheep them to the world down there : astrobiologists , planetary scientists , people who were interested in such extreme situations . i took them to the sources so they could look around , and we could test them instruments and we could test
we created documentary films , but it was actually science , actually , the space science . , in fact
so the circle between my existence as a science fiction was so covering at the time as a child , and the implementation to the reality
and over these exploration process , i &apos;ve learned a lot . . . .
i &apos;ve learned a lot about science , but i &apos;m sure you &apos;re going to have to have a director to be able to have a leader like a shipping captain or something . . .
but because i at didn a &apos;t certain understand point much , of i the had leadership to before say i
, walked &quot; this what expediam tions i . going to . do here . ?
why these do blocks i are do not this going ? to what bring &apos;s us
going any on money ? . &quot; . ? &quot; .
we &apos;re going to play the cost of production . from flim , not
everybody thinks i &apos;m between &quot; titanic , &quot; and &quot; avatar &quot; went from and had a doorknob somewhere on a beach on a beach . a
i &apos;ve made all these films , this documentary documentary , for a very small
no som , no honor , no money . what do you do ? ?
you &apos;re going to make it the job to become the challenge -- and the ocean is the most challenging environment , you make it in the discovery of space , and because of the weird connection that comes when a small group of people builds a team . . .
because we did all of this with just 10 to 12 people who &apos;ve been working down for years , and sometimes we were two to three months in the row .
and in this community you see that the most important thing that is looking at is the most important thing you can say about each other , because you &apos;ve got a task that can be explained to you . .
and when you go back to land and you say , &quot; we had to do it , the fiber glass , the dispute , and it &apos;s all around it , all the technology , and the difficulty of human performance , if you &apos;re working in the sea , &quot; you can &apos;t just explain the other . that &apos;s like in policemen , or by military who did something in common , and know that they can never explain anybody . way of officers , or by military who did
and there is a link , a mutual respect . .
so when i got back to make my next film &quot; avatar , &quot; i tried to turn on the same leadership style , which is that you have a team to respect and nurture the respect of the respect . in the mind
and that &apos;s really what changed the dynam@@
so i sat down with a little team on my board of terrain , and we turned &quot; avatar , &quot; with a new technique that had not happened before . .
incredibly exciting . .
a tremendous challenge . .
and we were aged for a four-and-a-half years to a real
and it changed my way of making films completely .
there were people who thought we had the oceans really , really , really look for the ocean pandora . . . . . . .
it was more of a relationship to me , to do my job , the actual process that changed in the outcome . process .
so what can we get from all of this ? ? from
what lessons do we learned ? ? what
i think that &apos;s the curiosity that i think is
it &apos;s the most powerful human being . .
our imagination is a force that can actually create a reality .
and the insight of your team is more important than any lorrists of the world .
to me , young filmmakers come to me saying , &quot; give me a advice as i can do something like this
and i say , &quot; don &apos;t throw yourself yourself . .
the scarget have some of these guys . do not do it yourself , don &apos;t do their own , but take risks on you
nasa has a favorite phrase , &quot; don &apos;t do it any other way . &quot;
but in art and in studying an alternative , there is an alternative to this , because it guarantees a
no important deal of innovation , which demanded innovation , has ever been done
you &apos;ve got to be willing to take those risks .
that &apos;s the idea i &apos;d like to give you on your way : fail is an alternative , but it &apos;s not a fear . thank you . . .
today i &apos;m speaking to you about energy and climate .
and this may surprise something like something that &apos;s happening , because my full-time job at the foundation is about vaccines and sethly to make things we create and deliver the poorest 2 billion a better life . . .
but energy and climate are extremely important for these people , actually , more important than any other on the planet . as if
climate change is not going to mean that their gusters will not grow growing , and it &apos;s too much regulating , and the things that are going to change it is that they can &apos;t keep their fragile
that &apos;s what starved starvation . it leads to uncertainty . it leads to ruins .
so and , it climate &apos;s change very is important odto d
them for . you . energy . . .
in fact , if you could only reduce the price , if you could only reduce the price , energy reduction would be at least at least
well , energy energy has fallen over time . . .
in fact , the progression society is based on energy
and coal evolution has been able to put the industrial revolution and even in the 20th century , there was a rapid case of the races of electricity , and so we have refrigerators , we can make modern materials , and so many things . . . stuff . . materials
so we &apos;re in a wonderful situation with power in the rich world . .
but , if we reduce the price , we &apos;re half -- we &apos;re half -- we &apos;re going to go to a new barrier , and we &apos;re doing those barrier coverines together . .
co2 is the planet , and the equation for co2 is actually quite clear . . . .
they drive the output of co2 , which leads to the temperature increase , and that temperature increase has some very negative implications , effects on the weather , and perhaps worse , the indirect consequence that the natural ecosystems cannot fit such a rapid changes and then collapse out all systems . systems . . as a result of
now , the exact relationship between a carbon increase and that &apos;s what &apos;s going on , and that &apos;s where the temperature of the temperature and where it &apos;s more implicitly , there are some disorders , but
and there &apos;s certainly ambiguity about how bad these consequences are going to be , but they &apos;re going to be
i asked the top scientists a few times , &quot; do we really need to get down to zero ? ?
is it not about half or a quarter ? &quot; , you
the answer is , until we get near zero , the temperature will rise . . .
that &apos;s why it &apos;s a big challenge .
it &apos;s different to say , we have a 3.5 foot tall , which is to get under a three-foot bridge . you can actually squeeze it underneath . . squatter
this one must have to go down , zero .
well , we &apos;re putting a lot of carbon dioxide every year , over 26 billion tons .
every americans about 20 tons , people from poor countries , less than one . . than one . .
it and &apos;s somehow about we five need tons to on produce the changes planet that , are
on going the to planet make . that happen . zero . . .
it &apos;s gone up anytime .
just different economic changes have to have changed , and we need to move from rapidly averaging and reducing it , and to reduce it , to a regain , to a regain
this equation has four factors . a little multiplication , you have this thing on the left on the left , and that will depend on the number of people on the average , the average energy for any human service and the co2 that will be emitted to energy . energy . . . . . . . . . .
so let &apos;s look at every single one in a second and think how do we get it wrong . .
i think one of those numbers has to come very close to zero . . .
now this is fundamental algebra , but let &apos;s go through it . . .
first , we have the population .
today , there are 6.8 billion people .
and it &apos;s on 9 billion . it &apos;s moving on
if we have very successful with new vaccines , health care and reproduction medicine , we might probably get 10 percent to 15 percent , but we &apos;re seeing a slope of a mile on 1.3 . on the right time ,
the second factor is the services we use .
this includes everything that we eat , the food we eat , clothing , television , heating .
these are very good things and poverty reduction means to make these services to almost everyone on the planet . .
it &apos;s great that this number is rising . . .
in the wealthy world , in the upper billion , we might be able to make a strike and use less , but on average , this number will increase every year and grow more than doubling the size of the services that per person are provided to .
and here &apos;s a very basic service . is there light at home so you can read the homework ? ? your home@@
and now these , students in didn effect &apos;t efficiency have , it the , e so , they the go energy out per and service read
, their there school &apos;s problems basically under good the news street . . news . . . news . .
we have something that &apos;s not growing . .
because of all different successes in the light sector , through other things , from other things in the city , we have a lot of services that are producing energy output to get 90 percent . in the world , there are
in other services , like the manufacturing of fertilizers , 105 million : 55 : 56,000 -- &apos; s ; it &apos;s -- $ 100
in total , if you &apos;re optimistic , maybe we &apos;ll get a factor of a factor three or maybe even a factor 60 . . . .
but in the first three factors , we &apos;re now from 26 billion in the world , we &apos;ve gone from 26 billion tons , and that &apos;s just not enough .
so let &apos;s look at the fourth factor -- and this will be a key factor -- that &apos;s the amount of co2 that is emitted in energy unit . .
it turns out , whether you can get this to zero . .
if if you you burn burn charnatural coal
gas : : no no . .
almost every manufacturing technique for electricity is in co2 , except renewables and nuclear power . . .
so what we need to do on a global level is to create a new system . . . .
we need energy chart . . .
now , if i use the term &quot; miracle &quot; i don &apos;t mean the impossible . . .
the microprocessor is a miracle . the computer is a miracle . .
the internet and its service is a miracle .
people here contribute to the developing of all of this wonders . . .
usually there &apos;s no deadline that you need a miracle to a particular date . . . .
usually you &apos;re just closing right and some come up , some of them don &apos;t .
in this case , we have to give full muscle and get a miracle in very short time . . . .
now , i wondered , how do i actually get this really wrong
is there a natural illustration , a demo that &apos;s going to unlock you here ? ?
i remembered mosquitos last year , and i kind of liked people that . , people
the idea was really capable for them , you know , there are people who live with mosquitos . .
this is what i would have found for energy . for energy , i
i decided that i would be free of light spells my year &apos;s contribution to the environment here .
so here are some natural lightbules .
you missed me to do not . in fact , you don &apos;t even leave the glass . .
well , there are all kinds of play solutions like this , but they don &apos;t get a lot . . . .
we need solutions , either one or a number of who have an unthinkable scaling and unimaginable , and while there are many mechanisms that people are looking for , i really see five , i really see five ,
i &apos;ve been abandoned , cell , fusion and biofuels . .
maybe these drugs may be a modern contribution , and if they can afford better than i expect , that &apos;s great , but my core point is that we have to do all these five in those five work , and we can &apos;t give up any of them because they &apos;re intimidating us , because everyone has significant problems .
let &apos;s start at burning fossil fuels , burning from either coal , burning from either coal or natural
what you have to do , seems to be there , maybe , but it &apos;s not . you &apos;ve got to get all the co2 that comes from the closet , fluidized , liquid pressure , and then you hope that there are stays there . pressure is going to stick out of the chim@@
there are some mushrooms that are going on at a 60 percent -- 80 percent wide , but getting 100 percent is hard to get , and a commitment to the coat of co2 is a big challenge , but the biggest problem here is that laytime &apos;s question . . , but the
who will ensure that ? ?
who can guarantee that literally many billion times greater than any kind of waste that you can imagine from nuclear and other things ? ? ? that
that &apos;s a lot of spames .
so that &apos;s a tough pill .
next is nuclear power .
it has also got three big problems . the cost , especially in highly regulated countries , are high . the question for security is that you really feel that nothing can go wrong , despite the human petition , that the fuel is not used for weapons . . .
then what do you do with the waste ? ?
because , although it &apos;s not very big , there &apos;s a lot of concerns . .
so three very difficult problems that are maybe about solving and that you should work on . .
i &apos;ve been summarized for the last three of the five
it &apos;s the renewables that are often called . . .
and also -- although it &apos;s great that they don &apos;t need fuel -- they have some deadrit .
one is energy density , which are generating these technologies than power plants . . . .
these are energy wells , they &apos;re talking about many square miles , thousands times as much as a normal power station . . . .
and then we are undermining these wins
the sun doesn &apos;t shine , it doesn &apos;t seem like a day and just the same as the wind does not follow . as the wind does not follow .
so , if you have to get away from these sources , you have to have a way to get energy in the age when you &apos;re not available . .
so there &apos;s big pricing challenges , there are challenges in transmission , and if we say , for example , the power of energy is out of the country , you don &apos;t just need the technology , you also have to deal with the risk that the energy from
and there &apos;s a waste problem . .
and to put in the scale , i &apos;ve been looking at all sorts of batteries that are made , looking at the cars , computers , mobile phones , pacewatms , for everything . and i &apos;ve found that the number of electronic energy that &apos;s using the world , and i found that all batteries that we &apos;re growing now could be less than 10 minutes of the total wa@@
so we need a big breakthrough , something that will be a factor of 100 better than the evidence of the present . . . . . .
it &apos;s not impossible , but it &apos;s not that easy . .
this is what happens when you try to get those underwear sources over the world , we say , 20 percent of the consumption of consuming . .
if you want to keep on the same time , you need an incredible lift . .
now , where should we go : what &apos;s the right approach ? ? .
&quot; manhattan project &quot; ? how do we get here ? ? ? ?
what we need is a lot of companies working on it . hundreds of
we need to have at least 100 regions . . . .
you &apos;ll say , you &apos;re crazy , you &apos;re crazy . that &apos;s fine . . . . .
i think there &apos;s a lot of people who are already engaged in the ted group . in the ted group .
bill gross has a variety of companies , among other things called the esolar , the great solar thermal
vincy khosla invested in dozens of companies and have great opportunities , and i try to encourage that . . . . .
nathan myhrvold and i fund a company that , perhaps surprisingly , is now tracking the nuclear approach . . .
there are some innovations in the nuclear sector ; modular , liquid
the development of development has stopped some time ago , so it &apos;s not a big surprise that some good concepts are around . concepts around them
the terragia concept means that instead of a part of the urans who &apos;s decided that you can burn the u235 , that you would be in the 99 percent of the economy that u238 . . 99
that &apos;s a pretty insane idea .
but in fact , it &apos;s been thinking about this for a long time , but you could never simulate whether it would work , but there &apos;s been a modern supercomputer , you can simulate it and see that , yes , you know , with the right materializing approach , it looks like it &apos;s functioning .
and because you &apos;re burning that 99 percent , it &apos;s a lot better to do . . .
you actually burn the garbage , and you can actually use the waste of today &apos;s reactors as a vehicle . . .
instead of breaking your head on it , you just burn it . it &apos;s a great thing . .
the uranian is going to spend gradually , a bit like a candle . . . .
you see , it &apos;s a kind of a plank , often written the &quot; microus wave reactor
the problem is really the fuel problem . . .
here &apos;s a picture of a guy in kentucky . .
this is the waste , the 99 percent . you &apos;ve got the one that &apos;s burned today , so it &apos;s called vital uranium . . .
the u.s. for hundreds of years . . .
and if you &apos;re in low-cost and simply filtered , you get enough fuel for the rest of the planet &apos;s life . . . .
you know , there are many challenges , but it &apos;s an example of many hundreds of concepts that we need to get forward . . . . .
let &apos;s think about how we should measure our success .
what should our testimony look like ?
so , let &apos;s go to the goal that we need to achieve , and then we talk about the interstep .
many languages speak of 80 percent reduction by 2050 . . . .
it &apos;s really , really important that we get there .
the so rest , of in 20 order percent to will reach be this produced 80 in percent the , poor industrial countries countries , have and to some reof charge the , far@@
including ms countries of like farchina ming , to their get economy clean , and to creement move to it clean . . . . . .
the other note is whether we &apos;re going to use the zero-emission technology , whether it &apos;s being used in all developed countries and we &apos;re on the way to get them to the rest of it . .
that &apos;s really important .
this is a key element of this magical . .
so , if we go back from there , how should the 2020 acre look like ?
it should be the two elements again . . .
we should use the efficiency process of reducing reductions , the less we ingest , the lower the carbon range will be , and therefore the temperature will be . the temperature .
but in fact , this speech is about the things that we do not completely lead to the great reduction , just the same , or even some less important as the other that is going to display the speed of this effort for these breakthroughs . . . .
this breakthroughs we need to follow with full gas , and we can measure that , in corporate numbers , in pilotprojects and regulation changes . . changes .
there &apos;s a lot of great books on this subject . . .
the al gore book , we have the choice , and david mckads , the &quot; sustainable energy &quot; is hot air . &quot;
they really do it , and create a framework where this is a good discussion , because we need support for everybody else . . .
there are some things that needs to come together .
this is a wish . .
a very concrete desire that we invent this technology . .
if you gave me a wish for the next 50 years , i could choose the president , a vaccine , and i love that , or i could choose that wish , which is , half-persistent energy weightness without co2 , that &apos;s the desire for me . i &apos;m going
this has the largest impact . . .
if we won &apos;t get this wish , the trence between the long term and the short-term people will be terrible in the way that the u.s. and china , between poor and rich , will be much worse . . . . . .
so what do we need to do ? ?
what do i project appi ? for that ? what i
we need to put ourselves on more research . research
if countries like copper meetings , they shouldn &apos;t just talk about co2 . . . .
you should talk about this innovation strategy and you would be blessed by the ridiculous hit that these innovative ways are spent . enough to this
we need market rivers , we need co2 control , cap george fip , which creates a prix to make a price .
we need to spread the message . .
we need to lead dialogue and complete fulits and also the things that are going to be done by government . . .
it &apos;s an important wish , but i think we can fulfill it . .
thank thank you you
. .
thank you . thank you !
so , thank you . just to understand terragel slightly to understand -- first of all , can you give us an idea of scale of that investment ? ? that
bill gates : you can run through a supercomputer , you &apos;re going to have all great scientists what we &apos;ve done , we just need a few 10 million , and even if we &apos;ve tested our materials in a russian reactor to make sure that it works reasonable , is just the $ 10,000 million . is being done in 10,000 million
the hard step is to build the first reactor , another billion , to find another billion that are the director and the place that &apos;s actually building the first of these .
once the first thing is , if it &apos;s going like the promises , it &apos;s clear , because the economic economy , the energy , the energy is so different from the nuclear state , we know it . than
to understand that right , what is it about making deep in the ground almost like a vertical column of nuclear fuel , this earn-using urr and then the process is going down and continuing to download ? ? ? working down ?
bg : right . now you &apos;ve got to refilgate reactor &apos;s new reactors , so there are a lot of people and many people who can go wrong . this thing where you open it up and you put things in -- it &apos;s not good ! !
but if you have very cheap fuel , you can fill it for 60 years -- think of a column -- that you will bury without all the complex complexity . . .
and a it nuclear &apos;s resitting actor there , for even 60 a years solution and to then the it
tr&apos;s ash done . . a . solution to . the g. arbage
bg : yeah . now , what happens to the junk : you can let him sit there -- there &apos;s much less waste with this method -- then you take it and you put it in the next reactor and burn it in the
and we &apos;re starting by taking the waste that already exists in those refrigerators or a dry beaks in the reactor , that &apos;s our closest fuel . fuel .
so that &apos;s what the reactors were a problem , which we have been reduced in our files , and that &apos;s the dramatically dramatic volume during this process . . . . . .
but as you &apos;ve talked to various people around the world , they have been talking to these
where is the greatest interest to do something really ? ?
bg : well we haven &apos;t set up in a place and there &apos;s a lot of interesting rules for everything that &apos;s called nuclear , and there are great interest in russia , in india , in china -- there were big interest and the people of the corporation , india , the china -- i was here and i &apos;ve hit the energy and i &apos;ve talked about the energy of the energy agenda .
i &apos;m optimistic . you know , the french and the japanese have done something in the direction
this is a version of one thing that was done . .
this is a very important step forward , but it &apos;s like a faster reactor , and some countries have built this , so everyone who has put a quick reactor in it , a candidate for our first . . for our first
in her imagination , do you think timeframe and probability really resonate into life ? ? that way
bg : well we need one of these scalable , electricity generating things that are very cheap , we have 20 years to invent and then 20 years to do it . . .
this is kind of the deadline that we have to have the environmental models we have to be .
and , you know , terram , when everything goes well , and that &apos;s a big wish , that &apos;s easy , that would be easy
and fortunately , there are dozens of companies today , and we need hundreds of them , the same , that they can , in fact , have been promoting the progression to their pilot , to provide it . for them to provide .
and it would be best if it &apos;s been done , because then you could use a mixture .
anyway , we need a solution . .
the big thing , the big possible throughbreak , is this the biggest thing you know ? . .
bg : a energy breakthrough is the most important thing .
it &apos;s without the environmental requirement , but it &apos;s so much more important . more important . . . .
in the nuclear sector , there are other innovative companies . .
you know , we don &apos;t know their work as well as these , but there &apos;s the modular method that &apos;s different . . .
there &apos;s a liquid reactor guy which seems to be difficult , but maybe it &apos;s not like that . . .
and so there are different , but the nice thing about being a great deal is that a urge molecule has a million times as much energy as a , say a carbon molecule , and therefore , if you can deal with the problems and those are mainly the radiation that the footprint and the cost , and play the potential , the impact on the land and other things , almost in a liga .
if that doesn &apos;t work , what then ?
do we have to provide random conditions to try and keep the earth &apos;s heaerle temperature ? ?
bthere g &apos;s : a when research you that get &apos;s into called that gesituation o, engineering it , &apos;s which like is being called overdifferent -techniques e, aten to , deland ay you warming &apos;ve , got so
a that heart 20 attack or in 30 a years very longer short , way we , have and to what make you it do up ? to you sit need down to . have a for heart 20 surgery or , 30 or years
this is just a insurance method . .
you hope we don &apos;t need that . .
some people say you shouldn &apos;t be in the assurance for insurance because you might have a weak , so that you will go to a lot of nails because you know that you
i don &apos;t know if it &apos;s the smart , if you take the importance of this issue , but there &apos;s now a discourse of this issue on whether you should be doing that , if things come faster , or that innovation will take longer than we expect .
climate change engineers : did you have one or two sentences for them to persuade ? ? you ? ? .
bg : well , unfortunately , the skeptics are actually the skeptics .
the ones who are making scientific arguments are very little .
do you tell you that there are negative effects to do with clouds that make things move ? things ?
there &apos;s very , very few things that you can actually say , which is a chance of millions of times . .
the main problem here is something like aids . . . .
you now make mistakes now , and you pay a lot later . .
and so the idea of this , now , if you have all possible problems , into something that you have just later -- and this is the fact that investment is not so good , in fact , and that &apos;s the one that &apos;s not so good about investment , and in fact , the ipcc report isn &apos;t necessarily the worst possible scenario , and there are people in the rich world who are watching ipcc and
the fact is that these uncertainty should make you worried . . .
but my dream here is , if you can make it economic , and at the same time , the skeptics are removed , then the skeptics also says , &quot; okay , i &apos;m not interested in it that it &apos;s not a carbon dioxide , i wish it &apos;s cheaper than the before i have before . &quot; , i &apos;m going to accept it ,
and that would be the way to answer the bjfn &apos;s answer that if you use all this time and energy to solve the co2 problem , all the other targets , you know , the reduction of malaria , the reduction of malaria , and so on , that it &apos;s a stupid waste of resources , to invest in , whereas there &apos;s better things we can do . things , there &apos;s better things
bg : well , the actual spending for research -- let &apos;s say the u.s. should spend 10 billion a year more than they do today -- that &apos;s not as dramatic . not as dramatic .
but below that , other things should not suffer
you come to large money sums , and you can get mentally engaged in people , if you have something that is not economic , and it &apos;s trying to finance that . to me , there &apos;s a lot of waste .
unless you &apos;re very short in front of a coereration , and you &apos;ve only funded learning curve , and i think we should try to do more things that have the potential to be a lot
if the distrie you get , a very high-energy energy , you can only tell the rich . , you know , the
i mean , any of us here could spend five times as much on our energy without changing its lifestyle . .
but for the bottom two billion , it &apos;s
and even lomborg is thinking about it
now , his new mage now goes to say , &quot; why does it stop not ? &quot; ? ?
he &apos;s still going to be , because of his earlier stories , with the skepticist camp associations , but he has understood that this is a very lonely a very lonely group , and therefore he &apos;s now eng@@
and that &apos;s a thought that i think is appropriate . . .
the research , it &apos;s just crazy how little people are supported . . .
bill , i think , for almost all people here , when i say i really hope your wish will be true . many , thank you . . .
bg : thank you .
a few years ago at ted , peter skillman saw a design competition called &quot; the marshmallow challenge .
the idea is pretty simple . fourpoolds have to have to be the biggest and avian , which is a number of tape , three-meter tape , and building a marshmallow . . a marshmallow .
the marshmallow is going to be on top .
and , although it seems really simple , it &apos;s actually really hard to do because it &apos;s really hard to start working together
and so i thought this is an interesting idea , and i put it into a design workshop . . .
it was a huge success . .
since then , i &apos;ve done 70 workshops , with students , developers and architects , even with ctos of fortune 50-business companies , and there &apos;s something about that problem of what enables deep connotes to how collaboration , and i want to share some of them with them . in terms of the con@@
normally , most people are starting to focus themselves on the task . .
they talk about it , they &apos;re thinking about how it &apos;s going to look , they stops around it . they
then you invest in planning and organization . they sketch and they spaghetted spaghetti .
they &apos;re investing in the collectivity of their time in collecting each other .
and finally , just before you have no time , somebody has the marshmallow , and they &apos;ll sit down on top of the top , take a step back and take the phone da . badly you admire your job . . .
but then , almost everybody , what happened , almost everybody , is the &quot; pac-da &quot; -- because the weight of the marshmallow is the whole thing that goes into mind and falling . . is the whole thing .
there are a number of people who have a lot more to &quot; uh-oh &quot; moments than others , and under the worst ones , fresh bwl . .
they lie , they smubble , they &apos;re confused , and they really are able to do
and of course , there are also a lot more teams that have a lot more &quot; tay-da shapes , and the best ones are fresh lunches .
and that &apos;s quite amazing .
as peter came along , they produce not only the highest towers , but the most interesting structures of all . . . .
what you &apos;re going to ask you , how does this happen ? why is that ? what is with those
and peter says , &quot; any of the children &apos;s children spend time chef in spaghetti gmbh gmbh . &quot;
they don &apos;t invest time in any way . . .
but there &apos;s another reason . .
and that is that bwl students have been trained to find a right thing , ok .
and then you realize it . . .
and then what happens when you stick the marshmallow to the top , you don &apos;t have time , and what happens ? ?
it sound &apos;s familiar a in
crisis what . ?
what kind of kindergarten is doing differently is that they start with marshmallow and build prototypes , successful prototypes , always with the marshmallow at the top , so they have multi-time the opportunity to fix badly prototypes . . . .
construction recognists that kind of collaboration as the core of an icon . .
and with each trial , the kids immediately get feedback immediately , and what doesn &apos;t . .
so the performance is to work with prototypes , is much -- but let &apos;s see how different teams work . .
the average for most people , for about 50 inches , bwl students are creating half of those , they &apos;re a little bit more , not much , child children are better than adults . . kids are better than
who is the most successful ?
architects and engineers , luck . .
1c is the highest thing i &apos;ve seen . . . .
and why ? because they understand triangle and safety self-enamment geometric patterns to build stable structures . . . .
ceos &apos;s a little bit on average . but here it gets interesting . . .
you put an executive administrator at the team , you &apos;re getting more likely to be . .
it &apos;s incredible . you look around , and you see , this team is going to win . &quot; . &quot; . &quot;
you can predict that . why is it ? ? .
because they have specialized skills of processation .
they &apos;re running the process , they understand it .
and that team , the regulating and the work , is to improve the performance of the team . significant
and specialized skills and processing and the combination of success . . .
if you have 10 teams , you know , you get about six , the stable structures , you get the stable structures
i was trying to do some interesting
i thought , let &apos;s put the poker on the same .
so i offer a $ 10,000 prize for a $ 10,000 prize for profit . w@@
what happened to these design students ? a design student ?
what was the result ?
this was what happened . not a team had a stable structure .
if anybody had built an 2.5-inch constructions , he would have carried the price .
so is it interesting that high competition is a strong effect ? ? ?
we repeated the practice of the same students .
so what happened was ? ?
now , they understood the advantage of the prototyping .
so , the same , bad team of one of the best . . .
they produced the highest constructions in the least time . .
so there are depth more profound lessons for us , about nature , and we &apos;ve done
you might ask , why would anyone actually invest in a marshmallow ? ? ?
and the reason is i create my digital tools and processes to help team , to help the cars , to make video games and
and what the marshmallow is doing is they &apos;re helping them identify hidden assumptions .
because , frankly , every project has its own marshmallow . . .
the challenge is a shared experience , a common language , or building basic , basic prototype , right , the right
and this is the value of this experience , which is this simple exercise . .
and those of you who care about it can be a marshmallowinga . . .
it &apos;s a blog where you can see how to build the marshmallow . .
there &apos;s a step-hy-sponp there . .
they find crazy examples from around the world as people optimize the system and incorporate the muti@@
there are also world menches . . world world
and the base lesson , i think , is that the construction of construction is actually a bon@@
it demands that we all set up our task and we use our thinking optimal , as our emotions and our actions , in the challenge facing us . in the challenge that we face . in
and sometimes it &apos;s a small prototype of this experience all of what it takes to make us from a &quot; uh-da &quot; -- to a &quot; ta-da moment . &quot;
and that can make a big difference .
thank you . .
do we have a machine here . . a machine
a big machine , a cool , ted machine , and that &apos;s a time machine . .
and everybody in this room must have to be in this room
and you can go to the past , you can go to the future ; you can &apos;t stay in here
and i wonder what they would choose because i &apos;ve asked my friends a lot of time , and they &apos;ve just asked them to go to the past .
i don &apos;t know . they wanted to go back to the time before there was cars or twitter or &quot; america &apos;s superstar . &quot;
i don &apos;t know .
i &apos;m convinced you &apos;re somehow in nostalgia , and we &apos;re in the way . . .
and i understand that .
i &apos;m not part of this group , i have to say .
i don &apos;t want to go into the past , and not because i &apos;m a adventurer .
it &apos;s because there &apos;s opportunities on this planet not going back , they go forward . .
so i want to go into this machine , and i want to go into the future
this is the greatest time ever in this planet , no matter what scale they were on on this planet no matter what scale they &apos;re going to be : health , wealth , mobility , opportunities
there &apos;s never been a time like this .
my great-grandparents were all raised as they were 60 . . my great-@@
my grandparents gave this number to 700s .
my parents are the 80 on the distant .
so , there was a nine at the beginning of my death number .
but it &apos;s not even about people like us , because this is a bigger thing than that .
a child who is born now can be , you know , live as long as to live as long as the richest man in the world
think about it . this is an incredible fact .
and why is that ? ?
smallpox . smallpox have killed billions of people on the planet .
they &apos;ve redesigned the demographics in a way that never has been done . , it has never
they &apos;re gone . they &apos;re gone . .
we hired them . she &apos;s a puff
in the wealthy world , the diseases exist , that there are some of us only more threatening , hardly .
dipscar , the vendings , the nezz@@
does even anyone know what that is ? ?
vaccines , modern medicine , our ability to feed billions of people , are actually the scientific method . . . .
and from my perspective , the scientific method is to try things out , see if it &apos;s going to work , it changes when it doesn &apos;t , it changes if it doesn &apos;t , it &apos;s
so that &apos;s the good news .
unfortunately , it &apos;s the whole good news , because there &apos;s a few other problems , and they &apos;ve been mentioned frequently
and one of them is that , despite all our achievement , one billion people on the world are hungry every day . . .
this number goes up , and it &apos;s very rapidly , and it &apos;s embarrassing . . .
and not only that , we &apos;ve used our imagination to devail the world . . .
drinking water , urbble land , rainforests , oil , gas -- they disappear , and soon of all , if we don &apos;t get there , we &apos;ll die . again , we &apos;ll die . . .
so the question is , can we do that ? i think . . .
i think it &apos;s clear that we can produce food that is feeding billions of people without the country that they live in . .
i think we can power this world with energy they don &apos;t destroy at the same time
i really think that &apos;s a wonder , and no , that &apos;s not a wonder . a
but this holds me awake at night -- one of the things that i think is awake at night , we haven &apos;t got some scientific progress that we &apos;ve never used before . . . .
and we were never able to put it in reasonable way , just as we can . . as we can
we &apos;re at the verge of an amazing , amazing event on many places , and yet i really think we have to go back hundreds and 300 years to enlightenment , where we have a time where we &apos;ve been engaging about these things , where we &apos;ve been getting more outliers than we are now . frontiers than we are
people are checking in their faith , and they &apos;re so tight that they cannot let them . . .
not the truth will be free . .
and you hear , everybody has a right to speak to their opinion , even a right to think about progress . . .
but you know what you &apos;re not right ? ? .
they don &apos;t have a right to go . &apos; tankment , they don &apos;t .
and i took a while to find that . .
i wrote an article about vaccine about a decade ago on the new yorker , a small article . .
and i was amazed at contradiction of what is the most effective measurement in health in the history of humanity . in human history
i didn &apos;t know what to do , so i just just made what i was doing , i wrote an article , and i went
and soon , i wrote an article about genetic engineered food . . .
the same thing , only bigger .
people were being snug@@
so i wrote about this article , and i couldn &apos;t understand why people thought that this was &quot; franken-fire , &quot; why they believed that the molecules were going to go to a particular way , a random way to go around the area of nature . . . .
but you know , i do what i do . i wrote the article , i kept on . .
i mean , i &apos;m a journalist .
we type , we dug one , we go to food , that &apos;s okay .
but i was worried these papers , and i couldn &apos;t figure out why , and then i figured it out
and that &apos;s because these fanatics , who were really crazy at all , were not fanatics .
these were very careful people , educated people , ger-powered people .
they were just like the people in this room .
and that made me get so confused . .
but then i thought , let &apos;s say what , let &apos;s be honest
we &apos;re at a point where we don &apos;t have the same relationship to progress as early as the sooner .
we &apos;re talking about the law calves .
we talk ironically , with little leaders , like , &quot; progress . &quot; . .
okay , so there are reasons , and i think we know what reasons are . reasons .
we have the trust of the people , authority , and sometimes in science , and there &apos;s no reason that it shouldn &apos;t be .
you can just call some name , and people will get into it
chernobyl , byeal , the challenger , vitamx , mass destruction , the u.s. presidential election .
i mean , you know , you can pick your
there are questions and issues with the people we thought they were always right . so , be skeptical .
ask : ask evidence to ask us , demand .
don &apos;t take anything for granted .
but here &apos;s the thing : if you get the evidence you have to take this evidence , and we &apos;re not good at all . . .
and i can tell that from the fact that we live in an epidemic of fear , as i &apos;ve never seen , and i will never see again . .
about 12 years ago , a story was published , a terrible story that would allow autism epidemic epidemic to the masns , shrimp and tube vaccine . . . . .
very scary .
and so , in some ways , we &apos;ve been doing this research
housing studies are going to be done ; this is a serious issue
the data came in .
the data came in from the united states , from the u.k. , from the sweden , from canada , and they were all the same , no correlation , no connection , no commu@@
it doesn &apos;t make any difference . it doesn &apos;t make any difference , because we believe in anecdotes , we believe what we see in real life . . .
we do not believe in a bundle of documents from a government board that gives us data , and i understand that , i think we all do
but you know what ?
the result of this was disrupted . .
disasting from this fact : the u.s. is one of the only countries in the world that impingly defends impure . . . . .
this is scandalous , and we should be ashamed . .
it &apos;s terrible . .
what happened is we could do that . . .
well i understand that . i do that . .
is this true here . in masker ?
does one in the audience have anybody in the audience ever seeing anybody die of
not very often . .
in this country at all , but 160,000 people in the world have been in the world . in the
this is a lot of deaths in the masnroom , 20 per
but because it hasn &apos;t happened here , we can push it down , and people like jenny mccarthy can walk around and get messages of fear and illiteracy of platforms like oprah and larry king &apos;s &apos;s preaching . . .
and you can do that because they don &apos;t connect cause and correlation . .
they don &apos;t understand that these things seem to be the same , but almost never the same .
and that &apos;s something that we have to learn , and that &apos;s something that we need to learn
this guy was a hero , jonas salk .
he liberated us from one of the worst hots of humanity . .
no fear , no quief , a child &apos;s hunting , and
the guy not so much . in the middle .
it &apos;s called paul offit .
he &apos;s just developed a rotavic vaccine just a few other people .
it can save the lives of 400- , 500,000 children per year in the developing world
pretty good , right ?
well , that &apos;s good , besides paul being walking around and talking about vaccines and says , how are they the value , and that people would just stop
and so that paul &apos;s is what a he
terrordoes ist like . that . .
if paul presentes in public listening , he can &apos;t say no offense to armed . .
he &apos;s getting calls at home because people told him that they know where to go to school . .
and why ? because paul , a vaccine has done
i don &apos;t need it , but vaccines are unaffected . .
you keep going ahead , you go back to the disease , awful disease , and that &apos;s happening
we now have masses in this country .
and that gets worse , and pretty soon , children will die again because that &apos;s just one question . . . .
and not only do they die of masses . .
what about child lunchage ? let &apos;s take that . why
a compound of mine , a couple of weeks ago , wrote me and said , i &apos;m a little bit embar@@
nobody has ever said that . .
she wouldn &apos;t vacate her child against childhood care . no . . .
fone .
why ? because we don &apos;t have the children &apos;s hands , and guess what
we had not had children &apos;s lunchage in this
now , i don &apos;t know , maybe in lagos this morning in lagos , an airplane , and you &apos;re just flying straight to los angeles , right now , he &apos;s over ohi@@
and in a few hours , it &apos;s digging and grabs a car , and it &apos;s going to come to long beach , and he &apos;s going to go to one of these amazing ted days of ted tonight . . . .
and he doesn &apos;t know that he &apos;s infected to a paralyzing disease , and we don &apos;t know that , because that &apos;s how the world works now
that &apos;s the planet that we live on . don &apos;t look like it &apos;s not .
we love to lie in lies . we love it . . . .
do you have all your vitamins now ?
ecroacea , a little ancient antioxidantium , which helps you
i know you &apos;ve done that because half of americans do it every
they take that stuff , and they take alternative cure , and it doesn &apos;t matter how frequently we find that they &apos;re useless . .
the data is engaging all the time .
they &apos;re daring their urine . they &apos;re almost never going to be .
that &apos;s okay , you &apos;d like to pay 28 billion dollars on dark urin .
i agree with you that much .
dark urine . dark .
why do we do that ? why do we do it ?
well , i think we hate the pharmaceutical industry .
we hate a strong government . we don &apos;t have trust in the
and we shouldn &apos;t . our healthcare system is mite .
it &apos;s cruel to millions of people .
it &apos;s absolutely cool , and it &apos;s all very cool to us that can afford . . . .
so we go from it , and where are we going ? ?
we &apos;re going to the arms of placebo industry .
that &apos;s great . i love the placebo industry .
but , you know , this is really a serious thing , because the stuff is crap , and we spend billions of dollars for it .
and i have all kinds of little props here .
none of none -- gingco , fraud , native acea , naked , acai , i don &apos;t even know what that is , but we &apos;re spending billions of dollars for it , it &apos;s fraud . .
and you know what ? when i say that , people get me screaming and they say , &quot; well , what &apos;s taking you ? drop people ? let &apos;s do what you want .
that &apos;s how you feel . &quot;
and you know what ? they &apos;re wrong .
because it doesn &apos;t care if it &apos;s the minister of health , who says , &quot; hmm , i &apos;m going to not accept the demonstrate of my expertise , or any of the cancers who want to treat your patients with caff-runs . . .
if you &apos;re giving away on this path where belief and magic are fixing science , you get to a place where you don &apos;t want to be
they come to thabo mbeki in south africa .
he brought over 400,000 of his people because he was convinced that red bew , the knommy , and checkling oil , are much more effectively than anti-retroviral drugs , which we know can
hundreds of thousands of unaccounted death deaths in a country that &apos;s being trapped in the worse than any other of this
don &apos;t tell me that these things don &apos;t have consequences . .
they have them . they &apos;ve always got
well , the brain loads in which we &apos;re in the right is that absurd struggle between the proponent of proponence , the bio-elite food , and the bio@@
this it is &apos;s an a idebate dioabout ic words debate ,
. about it metaph&apos;s ors got . to stop . .
this is ideology , not science . .
all we eat , every ripporn , every branch , every rotracious , has changed by the people . one of the people . . one of the
you know , there were no mandarin in paradise . .
there were no cantaloupe-mel-@@
there was no white trees . we did it all . .
we did it in the last 11,000 years .
and some of it has worked and some of it has been working .
we got rid of what &apos;s not working . .
now we can do it more in a way , and of course , there are risks . but , of course , we can do something like vitamin a. in rice , and that stuff can help millions of people to extend their lives . .
you don &apos;t want to do that ?
i we have reto fsay use , to i trans@@
don late &apos;t , understand trans. medically i changed
why do we do that ?
now , what i hear constantly is : many chemicals , pesticides , hormones , monoculture , the monoculture , we don &apos;t want to do huge fields with one thing , which
we don &apos;t want companies to be patenting
we don &apos;t want companies to have seeds .
and you know what my answer to all this is ? ?
yes , they &apos;re right . let &apos;s fix that .
it &apos;s true , we have a huge food problem , but that &apos;s not science . .
it has nothing to do with science .
it &apos;s right to be morality . it &apos;s a patentfum
you know , science is not a company .
it &apos;s not a country .
it &apos;s not even an idea ; it &apos;s a process .
it &apos;s a process , and sometimes it doesn &apos;t work , but the idea that we should not allow science to do their work because we are afraid , is really a baging cure , and it &apos;s holding millions of people from the flourishing . . .
you know , in the next 50 years , we will be going to grow 70 percent more food than we &apos;re currently . 70 percent . .
this investment in africa over the last 30 years .
shame . bless . . .
you need it , and we don &apos;t give it to them .
and why is that ? radical foods .
we don &apos;t want to encourage people to eat this vergged stuff , like bless it . like
well , the manifest is something that a half a billion people
it &apos;s like a potatoonic . .
it &apos;s just a bunch of calories . it &apos;s mite .
it doesn &apos;t have nutrients ; it doesn &apos;t have any protein , and scientists are building all that in there . .
and then people could and wouldn &apos;t get rid of the food and wouldn &apos;t get rid of it .
you wouldn &apos;t starve , and you know what ?
that would be nice . it wouldn &apos;t be geo panisse , but it would be nice .
and all i can say is , why are we fighting this ? ?
i mean , do we ask ourselves , why are we fighting this ?
because we want to push the genes around ? ,
it &apos;s not about flipping genes around . it &apos;s not about chemicals
it &apos;s not about our ridiculous passion for hormones , our persistence at much food , better food , unique food . .
it &apos;s not about rice krispies , which is to keep people alive , and it &apos;s time to understand what that means . time .
because you know what ? ?
if we don &apos;t , if we do it as usual , we &apos;re entering something that we think we want to be guilty about , high-tech colonialism . tech . tech . tech .
there is no other description for what &apos;s going on . .
it &apos;s selfish , it &apos;s ugly ; it &apos;s not worthy of our own , and we really have to keep
so after this incredible entertainment conversation , you might want to say , &quot; do you want to go into that ridiculous time machine and go into the future ? &quot; ?
anyway , i want to say that .
right now , it &apos;s in the present moment , but we have an incredible opportunity .
we can put this time machine on everything we want .
we can move them where we want to move them , and we will move them there where we want . . .
we need to have these conversations , and we need to think , but if we go into time machine , we will be glad that we &apos;re going to do that .
i know we can , and as far as i &apos;m concerned , it &apos;s something that the world needs now . .
thank thank you you
. .
i &apos;ve been interested in the placebo effect , and it &apos;s kind of strange that a magician interested in this is that if you look at it , it &apos;s like me , as i like , &quot; a deception that becomes something that becomes a real thing when someone just thinks enough about it . &quot; &quot;
in other words , sugar pills have shown a measurable effect that the placebo effect , and only because the person is thinking what happens to it is a pharmaceutical or some kind of -- in the painful management , for example , there is when the patient is only paying enough to think of a measurable effect in the body you call the placebo
a deception is something that is a premature thing , because somebody
so , we &apos;re able to understand each other , i want to show you a very basic , simple , simple magic trick . .
and i &apos;m going to show you how it works . this is a trick that has at least since the 1950s in every magic book for children . .
i &apos;ve learned it from cub scout ponder &apos;s path in the 197@@
i &apos;m going to execute him and then explain it . .
and then i &apos;m going to explain why i &apos;m explaining
so , see what happens . .
the knife that you can study ; my hand , you can study . . .
i &apos;m just going to hold the knife just like that . . .
i &apos;ll leave back my sleevine .
and to make sure there &apos;s nothing in my mind that i &apos;m going to be away from it , i will just put my wrist right
and so you can see that no time &apos;s moving anything , but as i push the closh there , there &apos;s nothing in my sleeves , or coming out
and the goal is that simple . .
i &apos;m going to open my hand , and hopefully , if all goes well , the knife will emphasize through my bare physical magnetis@@
it &apos;s actually so locked in its place that i can shake it without falling the knife . off . .
nothing can go in my sleeves or come , no tricketn . and you can study anything .
da-up !
now , this is a trick that i often teach small kids to do that are interested in magic , because you can learn a lot about deception if you &apos;re looking closely , even though it &apos;s a very simple trick . .
now , many of you know here in the hall that this
it works like this .
i think the knife in my hand .
i &apos;m saying i &apos;m wrapping my wrist to make sure nothing in my mind disappears or come out , and that &apos;s a lie . .
the reason i attach my wrist is that there is the real secret of illusion . .
and the moment i throw my hand away from them , so you see them from the back , it moves on this finger , that finger finger , just from there , where it was so promoted . . .
great trick ?
there &apos;s somebody sitting in the back of a day .
so , it &apos;s here . exactly . . .
and when i turn around , the fingers change its
and now you could talk about why that is a deception , there are only three fingings below here , because there &apos;s the mind and the way that he processes information , it doesn &apos;t count itself one-on-one , one , two , three , but it
but that &apos;s not really what this is about , and then i open my hand . . .
of course , there are , but not by the magnetism of my body , it &apos;s going to be by a trick , by my
and when i close my hand , the thing is that i &apos;m looking back on , that &apos;s going to cross by this movement that the fingers re@@
i &apos;m going to take that hand off . here &apos;s the knife
you can run this trick and your neighbors . thank you . . .
now , what does this have to do with the placebo effect ?
one year ago or so , i read a study that really blew my mind . .
i &apos;m not a doctor , or a researcher , and that was an amazing thing to me . thing .
so what &apos;s happened is , if you offer a placebo in a white pill , the shape of an aspirine table , that &apos;s just a round of white pill that has a measurement effect . . .
but if you can change the shape that you &apos;re doing , like , change the placebo , like a smaller pill , and that blue color beating and that &apos;s a letter of it , it &apos;s actually measurable
and that , although none of those pharmaceutical -- it &apos;s just sucking up . pills
but a white pill isn &apos;t much like a blue pill . .
what ? it really made me push up .
but it turns out that it &apos;s not all that . . .
when you take captocapes , you &apos;re the more active as tablets in every form
a colored capsule that &apos;s on one end and on the other red is better than a white capsule . .
and the dosage is playing a role .
a pill twice a day is not three pills -- i can &apos;t remember the exact statistical statistical statistics , so i
but the key thing is ...
... and the doses are also playing role . .
and the shape is a role . . .
and if you want to have the ultimate placebo effect , you have to grab the needle
right ? a syringe with an effective -- a few millilists of an effective substance that you inject a patient . . .
and that creates a very strong picture in mind . that &apos;s a lot stronger than a white pill . .
this chart is really -- i &apos;m going to show you another time , if we have a projector . .
in fact , the white pill doesn &apos;t really look as good as the blue pill , which doesn &apos;t really work as well as the capsule that doesn &apos;t really
and none of it has really got something really pharmaceous its own . it &apos;s just our belief in that it is a stronger impact . in our mind
i wanted to know if i could use this idea of a magic trick . . .
i &apos;m going to take some of the things that &apos;s obviously a deception , and
we know that we have to attack the needle when it &apos;s supposed to be a thing .
this is a 18 inch long wheel . she &apos;s very , very , very , very eye-long . and i &apos;m going to start a little bit of ster@@
this is really my flesh . it &apos;s not any glorious flourishing of flourishing
this is my skin . this is not a special effect from hollywood . .
so i &apos;m going to stick this needle into my skin and run through it until it stops on
if you &apos;re mad , if you fall slightly in oxies -- i &apos;ve taught a few friends last night in the hotel room , and some people i didn &apos;t know , and i &apos;ve gotten a woman almost to
so i propose that if you &apos;re very bent , then you &apos;ll go away for the next 30 seconds , or , you know what , i &apos;m going to make the first hot part
you can see it in a second , but you can also see , if you like .
so , it goes , right here , where my meat starts at the bottom of my arm , i will just make a small singing singing . . .
am i really sorry . does it be that crazy ? ? that
and just a little bit of my skin , and on the other side , again , again . .
now we &apos;re in the same picture that we &apos;ve got to the knistretric .
about . .
but now you don &apos;t count my fingers , right ? ?
so , i &apos;m going to show you . this is one , two , three , four , five .
well .
i know what people think when they see that .
they say , &quot; okay , it &apos;s certainly not so stupid , and it &apos;s just to be able to hold the skin for us a few minutes .
well what , does i this &apos;ll look show like you ?
. pretty good . . . .
yeah , i know .
and people say , &quot; okay . i haven &apos;t really seen this . &quot; . &quot; .
the people in the side are now coming in . .
let me show you from the middle of it .
it &apos;s really my skin . this is not a special effect from hollywood .
that &apos;s my flesh , and i can spin it . .
sorry . i &apos;m sorry if you &apos;re going to look , don &apos;t look like that . look , don
the people back or the ones who go this video later will say , &quot; well , it looks right in terms of this , but if it were real , it would be , you know , this is a hole , and there , if it was really real , it would float . &quot; , there it would be
okay , let me put some blood out for you .
yes , here it is .
i would normally take out the needle . .
i would like to have my arm cleaning and show you that there are no lesues
but i think in this context here , and with the purpose of making a real deception , i &apos;m going to just let the needle just in it , and go off the stage and
we &apos;re going to discuss a few more time in the next few
i hope you &apos;ll be happy to look at . thank you . .
everyone talks about happiness today . happiness
i &apos;ve let a few people have been published by the number of books , which are published by happiness in the past five years , and they spent about 40 up , and there &apos;s been
there &apos;s a massive wave of interest in the interest of the researchers under
there &apos;s a lot of happiness coaching .
everybody would love to make people happier .
but despite all of these tide of work , there are multiple cognitive ones that somehow make it impossible impossible to think of happiness . happiness . .
and my talk today will be mainly beneficial by these cognitive los@@
it &apos;s true to layers of your own fortunes , and it &apos;s for scientists to think about happiness , because it turns out we &apos;re just so confused like everybody else . . . as
the first of these fall is a resivative , complexity effort . . .
it turns out that the word happiness is simply not a useful word , because we &apos;re applying too many different things . . .
i think there &apos;s a certain meaning that we can limite it , but it &apos;s a whole and large , which we need to be giving up , and we &apos;re going to have to take advantage of the complicated view of what comfort is .
the second threats is a disorder of experience and memory : basically they &apos;re between happy being in their life and happy with their lives or happy with their lives . in their lives
and these are two very different concepts , and they are both plumped together in the idea of happiness .
and the third is the focus illusion -- and that &apos;s the unhappy fact that we can &apos;t think about a situation of being well-being , without disposing its meaning . disgusting
i there mean &apos;s , simply this no is way a to
real get cognitive it compright ass right . .
now , i &apos;d like to start with one example of somebody who had a fraction and questiony-session after a piece of my lectures that told a story . &#91; unclear &#93; &#93; he said he &apos;d had a symphony , and it was absolutely great music , and at the end of the recording there , there was a terrible piece of noise . at the end of
and then he added down , really quite emotional , and it ruins the whole experience .
but it didn &apos;t have it
what ruins the memories of the experience of the experience .
he had the experience . .
he had 20 minutes of total music . . .
they did not count because it was with a memory ; the memory was ruined , and the memory was all he had kept . . memory .
what really tells us that we might think about ourselves and think about other people in the sense of two ways of self . .
there &apos;s a living self that is living in the present and knows the present , is able to experience the past again , but basically has the present . the present .
it &apos;s the living self that the doctor is leading to -- you know , when the doctor asks , &quot; does it hurt now , if i put it on here ? &quot;
and then there &apos;s a reminder self , and the remembering self is that the thing that you counted , and it &apos;s the story of our lives right away , and it &apos;s the one that is talking about by the doctor by saying , &quot; how did you feel in the last time ? &quot;
or , &quot; what was your journey to albania ? &quot; or something like that .
these are two very different units , the living self , and the remembering self , and the two of them shift is part of the inherent of happiness . happiness .
now , remembering itself is a storyteller . .
and it really starts with a fundamental reaction to our memories -- it immediately starts .
we not only tell stories when we &apos;re going to do it to tell stories
our memory tells us , that is to tell us what we &apos;re feeling to be interstained from our experience
and let &apos;s start with one example .
there &apos;s an old study .
these are actual patients who are entering a painful procedure
i will not go into the details . it &apos;s no longer painful today , but it was painful as this study was conducted in the 1990s .
they were asked , all 60 seconds on their pain . .
and here are two patients . these are their records .
and you &apos;re asked , &quot; who of them did more than any suffer
and that &apos;s a very simple question .
patient b has a much more suffered . his gut reflection was longer , and every minute of pain , the patient had patient b , and more . . .
but now there &apos;s another question : &quot; how much did these patients feel that they were suffering ? &quot;
and here &apos;s a surprise .
and the surprise is that patient a is a much worse reminder of the gut reflection than a patient b.
the stories of gut reflections were different , and because it &apos;s a very critical part of the story , as it ends .
and none of these stories are very , very sophisticated or great -- but one of them is that clear . .
but one of them is someless than the other . .
and those who was worse was where the pain was on the end of its zenith , which is a very bad story . .
how do we know ? ?
because we have asked these people about their gut reflection , and also a lot later , &quot; how bad was the whole thing ? &quot; &quot; ? &quot;
and it was worse for a daughter as b in memory . .
now , this is a direct battle between the living self and the memory self . . .
from the inhabitable self , a number was clearly a bad time . . . .
now , what you could do with patient a patient , and we &apos;ve been doing clinical trials , and it &apos;s been done , and it works , you could actually extend the reflection of patient a by simply too much to shake down the tube without very much at the bottom .
it will do that the patient is suffering , but just a little less than it did . .
and if you do that for a few minutes , you &apos;ve managed to make the life that &apos;s alive , and you &apos;ve managed to make the remembering self from patient a much better way because now you have patient a better story about his experience . . . . .
what is a story ? ?
and that &apos;s true of the stories that we have , and it &apos;s also true to the stories we invent . . .
what a story is , the world is breeding , significant moments of black
so , they end up very , very important , and in this case , dominated the end .
now living itself lives lives in the world . . .
it has moments of life , one by one . .
and you ask , what happens to these moments ? ?
and the answer is really simple . they &apos;re lost forever . . .
i mean , most moments of our life -- and i just found that -- you know , psychological present is given to about three seconds , and what it does , you know , there are about 600 million of them in a month , and in a month there &apos;s about 600,000 . most of them don &apos;t leave any trace . in a month
most of you are completely ignored by the remembering self .
and yet , somehow , somehow you get the sense that you should count that what happens during that period of life is our lives .
it &apos;s the limited resource that we consume as we are in the world . .
and as we were consuming them , it was probable , but that &apos;s not the story that holds the remembering self for us .
so we remembered the remembering self , and that life itself , and they &apos;re really quite different .
the biggest difference between you is the process of time . .
from the inhabitable self , if you have a vacation and the second week just as good as the first , the second vacation is twice as much as the one that the previous vacation . . . . .
that &apos;s not how it works at all for remembering itself . .
for the remembering self , a second warlfriend barely gets better than the one that &apos;s done , because there &apos;s no new memories add to this
they didn &apos;t change history . .
and in that way , time is actually the critical variable that is disturbing itself from a living self , and time has very low impact on this story . time . . on
now , the remembering self makes more than remembering and told
it &apos;s actually the fact that making decisions , because if you have a patient who , say two , we had two different types of thinking , and we decide to decide which one should , then the one who has memory , the less bad , and that &apos;s the surgeon , who is choosed . . is being chosen . is going to be
the living itself doesn &apos;t have any voice in this choice .
actually , we &apos;re not choosing between experiences . we choose between memories between the
and even if we think about the future , we don &apos;t think of our future as finding experiences .
we think about our future as the forgotten memories . .
and you can look at this , you know , as a tyranny &apos;s mind , and you can think of it yourself as one that is kind of the living self by experiences that are not needed to be able to do the living self . . . . .
i feel that if we do a vacation do this very often , that means we make vacation proliferation in the service of remedies . . . . . . . . .
and it &apos;s a little hard to justify , i think .
i mean , how much towel we do that we &apos;re making
this is one of the explanations that the dominance of the rememace itself is . . .
and when i think about it , i think of a vacation we did a few years ago at antarctica , which was clearly the best urror i had , and i think , quite often , in proportion to how many times i think of other vacations .
and i probably have been spending my memories of these triangy-worth of journeys , i &apos;d say about 25 minutes in the last four
now , if i ever have the opening open to the 600 pictures that i have spent another hour . . .
well , three weeks , and this is at least one and a half hours . , at
it seems to be a discreditable .
well , i like to be a little extreme , you know , in how little appetite i have on the topes of the memories , but even if you make it more , you know , why do we give birth to the weight of the weight that we give ? that we give ?
so i want you to think about a thought experiment .
imagine your next holiday , you know , at the end of the vacation , you &apos;re all disguised by your images and you get an amnesian drug so that you &apos;re not going to
now , would you choose the same vacation ?
and if you &apos;d choose another vacation , there &apos;s a conflict between the two types of self , and you have to think about how you choose that conflict , and that &apos;s really not obvious , because if you think of time , you might get a different answer , and if you think of time , you could get a different answer . memories , you could get a
so , why we choose the vacations that we choose is a problem that we &apos;re looking at with a choice between the two ways
now , the two types of self take two of them to take away
there are actually two concepts of happiness that we can apply to , one per self .
so you can ask : how happy is the life itself ? ?
and then you &apos;d ask : how happy are the eye points in the life of the residents themselves ?
and they &apos;re all -- happiness for eckpoints is quite complicated process .
which ones can be measured ? ? that
and by the way , we &apos;re now capable of getting a pretty good idea from the fortune of the living self of the rest of time .
when you ask for the remembering of remedies , it &apos;s a very different thing . .
this is not how happy a person lives . .
it &apos;s about how content , or advery , is the person when that person thinks about their life .
very different term .
anybody who doesn &apos;t make these terms is the recreation of happiness , and i &apos;m part of a lot of researchers on comfort that have been disrupting the happiness of happiness very long on the very same way . . . . . . .
the distinction between the inheritance of the background itself and the satisfaction of self is in recent years now , and now you &apos;re now going to measure the two pieces of actions . . . .
the gallup organization has been asking a global survey , where more than half a million people have been asked to think about what they think about their lives and about their experience , and there were other effort in the direction .
so in the last few years , we &apos;ve started learning about the very two ways of learning about the
and the main lesson that i think is learning is that they &apos;re really different .
you know how to make someone feel with their life , and the teacher really doesn &apos;t really teach a lot of time about how happy he lives and vice versa . .
just to give you a sense of the correlation between the correlation , the correlation is about
what this means is , if you were to meet somebody , and you would tell them , oh , his father is a two-meter man , how much would you know about your size
now , you would know about your size , but there &apos;s a lot of uncertainty . .
they have so much uncertainty .
when i tell you that somebody has been involved in eight in a scale of ten , they have a lot of uncertainty about how happy he is with his living selves . .
so the correlation is low .
we know a little about what the happiness of happiness itself is . happiness .
we know that money is very important , it &apos;s very important .
we know that happiness meant to be satisfied , to be satisfied with people we like time to spend time with people we
there are other pleasure , but that &apos;s dominant . .
so if you want to maximize the happiness of the two types of self , you &apos;re going to end up doing very different things
and the implication of what i &apos;ve been saying here is that we shouldn &apos;t imagine the replacement for being well-being . is
it &apos;s a completely different term .
well , very quickly , another reason we don &apos;t really think about happiness is because we can &apos;t care about the same things , when we actually live on life , and if we actually
so if you ask the simple question , how happy people in california are not going to get the correct answer . . . .
if you ask that question , you think that people in california have to be happier when they say , say , ohio .
and what happens is , when you think about life in california , think about the difference between california and other places , and that &apos;s what makes the difference , say , climate . .
well , it turns out climate is not very important to the living self , and it &apos;s not even very important for the detection itself that decides how happy people are . people are
well and , it because &apos;s the kind blinof k interesting self to is follow responsible what , &apos;s you going can on end with up people with
who some are people coming at to the the end hope of of the getting day happ. ier . a few . people might .
now , you &apos;re not going to get the more familiar self . .
we know this .
but one thing is going to happen . you &apos;ll think they &apos;re happier because when they &apos;re thinking about it , they &apos;re reminded of how awful the weather was in ohio , and they &apos;ll feel they made the right decision . .
it &apos;s very hard to think of well-being , and i hope i &apos;ve taught you an idea of how difficult it is . .
thank you .
thank you . i have a question for you . a
thank you . .
now , when we ran on a couple of weeks ago , they said , &quot; this was a pretty interesting output , which came from this gallup . &quot;
is that something that you can let us share because they now have a few minutes left
daniel kahneman : sure .
i think the most interesting thing we &apos;ve found in the gallup poll is a number we didn &apos;t expect to find . .
we when found we this looked in at terms emotions of like the the happiness income
of . the society . itself . . . as we
and it turns out that under a 60,000 dollars a year , for americans , and this is a very large sample of americans , about 600,000 , but it &apos;s a big representative sample under a income of 600,000 dollars a year . 600,000 dollars
60,000 .
dk : 60,000 .
they are 60,000 dollars a year , and they are increasingly unhappy , and they &apos;re increasingly unhappy , more than they &apos;re going
we get an absolutely flat line . . .
i mean , i &apos;ve seldom seen flat lines . .
what happens is that money is not causing an experience of an experience , but that lack of money will certainly be charged , and we can measure that one very , very , very , very ,
in the spirit of the self , the remembering self , you get another story . .
the more money you earn you more money is you &apos;re less happy .
it &apos;s not for emotions . .
but danny , in the entire american effort it &apos;s about life , freedom , pursuit of happiness . .
when people take this fund seriously , i mean , it seems to put everything on its head , everything we think , for example , in terms of tax-free , and
is there any chance that politicians would take a place in general , and based on the fact that it would take on the serial level based
dk : you know , i believe that recognition gives us the role of happiness in politics . in science
the recognition is getting closer in the united states , not a question , but in the u.k. , it &apos;s just happening , and in other countries it &apos;s just happening . in
people are actually trying to recognize that they should be in happiness when they think about politics . .
it will take a while , and people will argue whether they want to study an experience of experiencing happiness , or whether they want to study life review , so we have to bring this discussion quite soon . .
how do you raise happiness is going very differently from how you think and whether you think about the remembering self , or whether they think about the living self . . .
this is going to affect politics , i think , in the coming years .
in the united states , you &apos;re looking at the experience of the population of people . . happiness
that &apos;s what i think is in the next decade or two in the world or two in the national statistics .
well , it seems to me , this topic , at least , is to follow the most interesting political debate about the next few years . about the
thank you for the invention of behavioral economics . .
thank you , danny kahneman .
i &apos;m jane mcgonigal . i &apos;m making computer games .
i &apos;ve been developing online games for 10 years , and my goal for the next decade is to make it as easy to save the world in reality , as it is to save in online games . . . .
i have a plan for it . i want to convince more people to spend more time with the playing greater and more enjoyable games . . . .
we currently spend three billion hours a week playing online . .
some of you might think , &quot; this is a lot of time for games . &quot; .
maybe too much time when you think about how many problems we persuaded to solve in the real world . world
but in fact , my research at the institute of the future is that just the opposite is true . .
three billion hours a week , they &apos;re not nearly enough to solve the world &apos;s most urgent problems .
i actually am convinced that , if we want to survive this planet , we need to increase this planet . , we need to increase this
i calculated that there &apos;s been 21 billion hours of play a week . time .
now , that seems to be a little bit more intense , so repeat it so that i can do it , if we can , like famine , poverty , climate change , global conflict and obesity , i think we need to do the games of playing online for at least 21 hours a week . the next decade . after the next decade . . at the
no , i really mean it seriously . .
why ? this picture is pretty precise , why i think that games are so vital to the survival of human species in the future . .
this is a photographer of photographer tolidano . . .
he wanted to capture the feelings of play . so he &apos;d put a camera on the players . . . . .
this is one of the classics of play .
if you &apos;re not a player , you may get some of the nuances in this picture . .
you probably see this sense of urgency , something fear , but also external concentration , deep immersion , into the resolution of a really difficult problem . .
if you play yourself , you &apos;ll see some nuances here coming up and the mouth is a sign of optimism . the eyebrows show surprise . surprise . surprise . surprise . surprise . surprise .
this oh is , a you player know who that says . that ok there . &apos;s prime a . perso
cal we siegot glsome er gam. ers here . . . . . .
one of the epic victory is a result that &apos;s so wide positive that they didn &apos;t even know it was possible at all . .
it was almost beyond the imagination . . .
and when you get to it , they &apos;re shocked to be in fact , that &apos;s a thing that is the epic of
this is a little bit short before you &apos;re a epan victory .
and this is what we have to see on millions of faces around the world if we take the barriers of the next century in attack , the face of those people who are against all dotten on the edge of an epcal victory . . . the face of those people
well , unfortunately , we &apos;re looking at this face of real life , if we &apos;re getting tough problems . bad problems . bad problems
i call it a bad face than &quot; in life &quot; i am a bad face , and it &apos;s actually my face , you see ? ok ? ok . .
this is me being bad , as i am , &quot; face &quot; face . &quot;
this is a graffiti in my former home in berkeley , california , where i studied why we &apos;re better than in life in the real life . . . . .
this is a problem that a lot of players have . .
we think we &apos;re not as good as games in our games . . .
and i don &apos;t just mean less intentive , even though it &apos;s done . .
we get more in play worlds . i mean , in the context of the motivation , to do something significant , to be inspired together . . . .
if we &apos;re in a game world , i think many of us think of our best version , at any time , and immediately helpful to try to solve the problem as long as it takes to make it happen after the failure . . . . .
and in reality , if we hit on obstacles , we often feel different . . . . .
we feel overwhelmed . we feel we &apos;ve been constrained , and we feel threatened , maybe depressed , frustrated
we never feel like we play games , we just don &apos;t play them . , they just don
and that &apos;s what i wanted to study as a grad student . . .
why is it impossible to think about it , you could not just get everything ?
how can we transfer these feelings from the games into reality ? ? how can
so i looked at games like world of warcraft , which provides the ideal environment for community problemps . .
and i &apos;ve found a few things that are occurrisic , in the online worlds that i have
so , first , if you enter one of these online games , especially in the world of warcraft , there &apos;s a lot of different characters willing to trust you a world-dominated mission , namely . . . .
but not just any mission , but a mission that matches perfect to its current level at the game , right ? ?
so they do that . .
you never get a job that you cannot solve . .
but always on the edges of its own skills , so you have to get yourself to go and get a brick . but there &apos;s no unemployment in the world of
you &apos;re not around , and you &apos;re going to make it feel like you &apos;re always very strong . .
and there &apos;s a way of staff .
and where you go , hundreds of thousands of people working with them to finish their epionary mission .
we don &apos;t have that in the real life that we do that , that feeling that you &apos;re standing with a fingerbox in your fingerflies
and there &apos;s also this epic story , this inspiring story , of why we are and what we &apos;re dealing with .
then we get a whole positive feedback . .
they &apos;ve heard of levels high and &quot; you &apos;ve heard &quot; + masker . &quot; one intelligence .
this constant feedback is not in real life . . .
when i leave this stage , i didn &apos;t know : i can &apos;t talk + zero and i can &apos;t tell you , 220 false idea , of
i don &apos;t get in the real life of that feedback
so , the problem of cooperative online projects like world of warcraft is that it &apos;s so satisfying to stand at any time at the edge of an epan , that we &apos;re prefer to spend our time in that game of play .
they &apos;re just better than reality .
to this day , all the world of warcracial players have spent 5.93 million years to solve the virtual problems of astooth . . .
it &apos;s not necessarily a bit bad . .
it may seem evil . . . .
but to think about it , 5.993 million years ago began to be right now to go down to our first primate ance@@
so the first exciting care . . .
ok , so when we talk about how much time we spend with play , this makes sense to make sense when you think of the scale of human development in the human development , which is extraordinary . . . . . . .
but also , because it turns out that by using all this time we &apos;re using the games , we actually change the way we human beings are . . as humans
we &apos;re developing collaborative , cardiac beings . . .
that &apos;s the truth . i believe .
if you look at this interesting statistician , recently , recently , a carnegie mellon university , the average man of today &apos;s powerful play , has 10,000 hours of online play by the 21st of the day to the 21st of the year . a year
so 10,000 hours is an interesting number of interesting numbers , two reasons
first of all , for children in the united states , there are 10080 hours that are the accurate total of all the exchanging total of all the time -- if you &apos;re never lacking . by
so here we have a complete parallel way of learning about that young people are learning about what it means to be a good player , like everything else you learn in school . . . .
and maybe some of you have a new book of malcolm gladwell , &quot; flying on , &quot; read
so you know its theory of success , the theory of success of 10,000 hours . a 10,000 -@@
it &apos;s based on the amazing science of cognitive science that if we spend 10,000 hours of the prison in a given degree to the 21st of the year , we &apos;re going to be to be the master@@
we &apos;re going to be so good at doing whatever it is to do , as the most
so what we have here is a whole generation of young people who are master-player . . . .
so the big question is , &quot; what exactly are the player &apos;s greatest good ? &quot; good ?
because if we could find that , we &apos;d never have been wasted human potential . , we &apos;d never solved that .
so many people have now in the world that at least one hour per day will spend online play . . .
these and are in our the manext sterdecade -, player we players have . another 500 billion million players people who who are
are extraordinary extraordinary in in whatever &quot; it something is . . &quot; . . . . . .
if you haven &apos;t heard it . . .
the game industry is creating the energy that saving energy and working on mobile devices , instead of the broadband internet , so that players around the world , especially in india , to be in brazil , to be able to play online online .
you expect a billion billion players in the next decade . .
so we have 1.5 billion players . . .
so i started to think about what it is , what these games are made of . . .
here are four things that i found . first of all , invaling it . sense of
ok , imagine how extreme self-motivates do .
urling efficiency is the desire to do something , to master a hurrier , with the belief that we have an eye-fitted hope on success . believing that
players always believe that an epcal victory is possible , and it &apos;s always worth trying to try and , not the same
so the players are not sitting around .
players are poet champion of spiders in spiders . . .
there &apos;s a lot of interesting studies that show that we people like more than we played with them , even when they &apos;ve started us . . . .
and the reason for that is because it requires a lot of trust to play with somebody .
we believe that someone &apos;s engaging with us , that the rules are being held , that we have the same goal , and we &apos;re going to end up with the game . .
so that allows you to play together by bonds , trust and one . . .
and as a result , we &apos;re going to build more powerful social
happy productivity . fantastic ! ! !
you know , there &apos;s a reason why the average word of warpie players play 22 hours a week , so they kind of do a part of time
and the reason is , when we play , we &apos;re actually happier , working harder than if we relaxed or we do nothing . . . .
we know we &apos;re a human being , optisely , when we do hard , meaningful work .
and gamers are always ready to work hard when they get the right job . . .
and finally , epimatic significan@@
gamers love to become the part of the age-up discounter planet . . . . .
here &apos;s a backgrot picture to put that in the right , you know all of the wikipedia , the biggest wiki of the world .
the second largest wiki of the world , with almost 80,000 tuits , is the world of warcraft . .
five million people use it every month .
they &apos;ve put more information on the world of warcraft on the internet than any other subject in every other wiki of any world . .
they create a epic story . .
they create a epic source of knowledge about the world of warcraft .
ok , so these are four superpowers that lead to a single outcome : players are super powerful , hopeful individuals . .
it &apos;s people who believe that they can change the world as individuals . .
and the only problem is they think they can change the virtual worlds , but not the real ones . .
that &apos;s the problem i &apos;m trying to solve . .
edward cagamova is a science scientist . .
his work is great . he studied why humans spend so much time , energy and money on online worlds . . .
and he says , &quot; we &apos;re going to be witnessing not less than a mass of mass of mass and online world environments . &quot; . &quot; . &quot;
and that &apos;s an economist . so he &apos;s logical .
and he says ...
not like me -- i develop games , i &apos;m a little bit more angry .
so he says that this gives sense , because players can get more in online worlds than in real life . . .
they can make more potent social ties than in the real life , they get more reviewing and reward rewards in games than in real life . . . .
so he says , it &apos;s entirely logical now , that players are in the virtual world than in the real time . .
i &apos;ll just give you one another , that &apos;s logical .
but it &apos;s definitely not an optimal situation . . .
we need to start turning the real world into a game . .
my inspiration comes back from an event that &apos;s been back 2,500 years ago .
there &apos;s these ancient cube cube , you know , sheep . you know ? ?
so , in front of this fantastic spiritual controllers , there were sheep . a little bit
and these were the first kinds of people developed toys .
and if you &apos;re familiar with the works of greek historian hereotus , you may know this story . the story of how and why are we invented . history was invented
according to odootus , games became more like the same , more corrurate , in the kingdom , invented by famine .
there was such a famine that the king of lydics had to be a crazy idea . . . .
people were suffering . people were fighting .
it was an extreme situation . it was a very extreme solution .
so they invented , according to , according to oiotus , the magic game and the agreement of a national strategy , and on one day you would be eating . day you would be playing . day you
and they would be dilivious as they should be distorted into the magic game , because games are so fascinating and we &apos;re happy to surround us with gratification , happier productivity that they would forget nothing to eat
and then the next day , you would play . and the next day you would be eating . . on
and according to odootus , she survived for 18 years , she was eating this famine by dinner and played the next game . . .
and the way i think we &apos;re playing games today . . . .
we &apos;re going to play a games to come out the suffers
we &apos;re going to play a game to avoid everything that doesn &apos;t work in the real world , and it &apos;s not satisfying what we need from play . life , and we &apos;re getting
but it doesn &apos;t have to be the end .
that &apos;s exciting . .
according to odootus , he was not better at the famine , so the king was not doing a last paroform game . .
they divided the kingdom into two . the
they played a cardggame and the newest third-party to a native dadgets . . .
they left poetry and they went looking for a new home , and they just wanted to go back and forth as a new home , and they just wanted to go back as many people as they could live and were in the afterfit . in
it sounds crazy , right ? ?
but nelatest dna evidence shows that etretkers , who later did this , who were later building the roman emb that reveals the same dna as the old lydi@@
so , scientists recently decided to understand that hereotus &apos;s weird history was actually true . history .
and geologists found evidence of a global refripation that took almost 20 years , which could explain the famine . .
so this kind of crazy story could be heard .
you might have rescued your people by playing for 18 years , and then they had to have this inbuilt and then learn so much about one another , that they &apos;ve saved the whole civilization . . . population . .
so we can do that . .
we &apos;ve been playing warcraft since 1994 .
this was the first strategy game in warcrage series in warcrage series , 16 years ago . 16 years
they were playing cryopers for 18 years , we &apos;ve been playing warcraft for 16 years .
i would like to argue that we are ready for our own epi@@
so , they sent half their civilians to searching for a new world , so i take my 21 billion bag-hours a week . . . .
we should be over-income that half of us will spend an hour of playing with play , until we &apos;ve solved the problems of
i know you &apos;re going to ask , &quot; how do we solve the physical world problems in games ? &quot; and so i &apos;ve been paying my work in the institute of the past several years . that question , i &apos;ve been dedicated to
we have this banner in our office in palo alto , it &apos;s like we should understand the future . . . . . .
we don &apos;t want to try and say the future before .
what we want to do is create the future .
we want to think of the best possible outcome , and then we think of people to remove this idea of reality . . .
we see epic settings and give people the ways to reach them . . . . .
i &apos;m very quickly showing you three games that i &apos;ve designed to try and create people epensively in their own future . . . . . . .
this is &quot; world without oil . &quot;
the game is from 2007 . .
it &apos;s an online game where you have to overcome an oil calsion .
the oil scarcity is invented , but we have enough online content to make it realistic , and actually live their real life without oil , so if you start to address the game , tell us where they live , and then they have to figure out what &apos;s going on , and then they have to figure out how much oil is affected , how to do it , how to help them be disconnected , whether there are disorders , and they have to figure out how they design their real life when it &apos;s true , how to help them to be educated , be a schools closed , and they have to figure out how to design their real life when it &apos;s true , and we ask them to sign up , to hide video , or photographing .
we did this game with 1,700 players in 2007 , and we &apos;ve been touching them over the last three years . .
and i can tell you it was a transformational experience . .
nobody wants to change their lives , because it &apos;s good for the environment or because we should . . .
but if you &apos;re in an epic adventure and you said , &quot; we &apos;re going to go out of oil . &quot;
this is a fascinating adventure to go on . . .
find out how they survive . most of our players have been keeping the game in the game . , we have a living habits .
so for the next world , we &apos;ve got a bigger , more effective goal than it was just oil spills . .
we &apos;ve developed the game &quot; superblepe &quot; at the institute of the future
the starting point is to calculate the computation of a supercomputer that people have only 23 years on the planet .
this supercomputer is called &quot; global deaths &quot; sensitive , &quot; of course .
the call to gaming , to sign up , have almost designed a &quot; jerry bru@@
they &apos;re known to know jerry bruckheistera movies , where there &apos;s &quot; dream team &quot; -- they have astronauts , scientists , the ex-toll, and only together they can save the world .
but in our game , instead of just five people , we say , you &apos;re in the muu team , and it &apos;s our job to create energy , food , health , security and the future of social justice . . . . . . . . . . . .
eighte,000 players played the game for eight weeks .
they found 500 incredible solutions that they can read when they &apos;re called &quot; supercart . &quot; . . . . .
and the last game we &apos;re going to do on march third : it &apos;s a game involved with the world bank . . . .
when you close the game , you get from the world bank that you &apos;re going to call &quot; social interturn , &quot; in 2010 . .
we &apos;re working with universities in black africa and inviting them , social reconstruction . . . .
we have a comic thing . we have &quot; level high &quot; for regional understanding of the world , and we have , you know , about the world level , and we need
i want to invite you all to share this game with young people around the world , especially in the developing world that benefit from the developing world , to imagine how to save their own social enterprise , to save the world . . . .
i i &apos;ll want get to to ask the you end a
. little bit . . . .
what do you think happens next ?
we have all these fantastic players , we have games that show us what we can do , but we don &apos;t have the real world yet . . . . . .
well , i hope you agree that language are human resources that we can use to work in real life , and that games have a huge significance for change . . .
we have all these superpowers , happy productivity , the ability to make alignment social networks , dringlighting optimism , and desire to epcal significance . . .
i really hope that we play together more important to survive on this planet another century . . . .
and i hope you &apos;ll design play with me and play . . . .
and if i look into the next decade , i &apos;m sure at two things that we can make any imaginable future , and that we can play all kinds of games .
so i &apos;m going to say , let &apos;s start the world changing games
thank you .
i &apos;d like to share with you something that &apos;s gone up a couple months ago to an article for italian magazine . .
i have been willing to take my own in the writing , because my field of dictionary is really ready , but i was already done with the work of the texts , and i noticed that i &apos;d never been beaten in my life , which is
i read the entry . .
&quot; disabled , &quot; adviculous : &quot; disabled , helpless , help , destroyed , swap , swap , disgust , disgust , disgust , hazzing , enhanced , hazzing , hazzing , impounded , hadged , hazzing , impounded , haired , haunted , and he broke out of the railway , enhanced , enhanced , enhanced , doodling . sweeakess . , he pulled out the ra@@
antonyme : healthy , strong , powerful . &quot;
i read this list of a friend , and i read about it first , it was so ridiculous , but i was only going to be able to speak , and i could continue to read and to read and i had to stop reading and i &apos;d have to read and i &apos;d have to read and to read and i once have to go and stop
of course , this was a crazy old synonyghteary dictionary , and i just thought that the exposure must be pretty old .
but in fact , it was an exact on early &apos; 80s when i was starting to start building my self outside of my family background and form my own self outside of my family field field , also in terms of other kids
and thank god i didn &apos;t use any synonymous dictionary at the time . .
if i would take this one , seriously if i was born in a world that someone like me would have a positive place , that their lives can only run a positive way of doing , but today i &apos;m going to have the opportunity and adventure that i &apos;ve experienced . . for the
so i immediately started calling the online output from 2009 , and i expected that i &apos;d find a speaker . .
here &apos;s the update in this entrense . .
it &apos;s not much better . .
especially the last two words are scared of randomonyms , &quot; and &quot; healthy . &quot; . . . . .
but it &apos;s not just the words . .
it &apos;s about what we think about people who we think about these words .
it &apos;s the values that are in these words , and how we build these values .
our language affects us and how we see the world and the people around us . .
many ancient societies , including the greeks and the roman , really believed that the exact of a flight has a huge force because what you say is a great force , you can also manifest , you know ,
so , what do we actually want to do -- a disabled people or a powerful people ? a disabled people ?
even a person now is to call up four adolescents as a child could be enough , to restrict them and run them into the ideas . .
wouldn &apos;t it be nice to open you doors ? ?
a human being opened for me , my pediatrician was at a.i. dupont institute in wilmington , delents . in
it &apos;s called dr. pizzullo , dr. pizzut.he , whose name , as you can imagine , most americans couldn &apos;t predict correctly , so he became always called dr. p.
and dr. p. fought very blow , and was just created for the work with kids . . .
i found the time i spent in this hospital , just great -- except my physigue therapy . . in my physi@@
i had to repeat a common one often , and i had to repeat those diets , elastic bases -- different colors -- you know , to build my body muscle , and i hated these bars of more hatey than anything else . i hated them . i &apos;ve hated them . . i &apos;ve got
and imagine if i did a five-year-old child with dr. p. i &apos;ve even negotiated , and so try to stop these practices , natural linger without succeeding . . . .
and he was one day , he was watching me on one of my practices -- these practices were just hardwired and gradenless -- and he said to me , &quot; wow , aimee , you are such a powerful , powerful girl , you &apos;ll one day , one of those bars . .
and if you &apos;re done , i give you a hundred dollars . &quot; . &quot; .
and of course , that was a simple trick from dr. p. so i make the exercise that i didn &apos;t want to do with the provision that five year-old girls in the hospital are going to be to the second floor , but i &apos;ve actually made that to see my daily practice horror with new eyes , and that &apos;s what it really made . , very promising experience .
and i &apos;m thinking now , how much his vision of me as a startling and powerful young girl has been formed my own self , and so i could imagine myself as one of nature &apos;s startling , powerful and atlethic humans .
this is just one example of many of the ways in power positions that are the imagination of a child .
but as the previous examples from synonymous dictionaries , it gives us no space to imagine what we all wish to be , to enable it to enable everyone to see themselves as a powerful person . .
our language is to the social changes that have been resolved in many cases by a technical change . . .
viewing from medical standpoint , of course , you can say that my legs , the laser surgery for visually-making , kield , titan and artificial hip shows for aging body bodies that allow people to actually use all of their possibilities and share about the limits that they &apos;ve given them in their natural destiny , to not even talk about social networking , human networking tools enable their own identity , to help themselves define their own way , and engage with groups that are considered
so , maybe it &apos;s a very different kind of technological change that ever has been there , that there &apos;s always been a different truth , which is that every human being has a little special and very powerful , and that the human ability
the human ability adapt -- this is an interesting story , because people kept asking me the way i deal with wigleds and i &apos;m going to stand with you , this phrase has never missed for me , and i &apos;ve always felt like that , this phrase has never missed for me , and i think , in my life , i &apos;m honestly
this sentence from the process of wielessness is that it &apos;s from the idea that success or happiness depends on a challenge to master a challenge without being associated with the associated experience . as if my life had been so successful , i could give you a prosthetic amount of life , or whatever people are having me with my disability . as it was so successfully lost to people with my disability . as it was so successfully lost with me to
but the truth is we &apos;re changing . of course we &apos;re coined by the challenge , whether they &apos;re physical , emotionally or in fact . .
and i would like to say that &apos;s a good thing . .
wielatties are not obstacle that we need to reconcile to get our lives better . .
wields are simply our own lives
and i tend to see quotations as my shadow .
sometimes i notice that he &apos;s very upsetting , sometimes it &apos;s hard to see , but it &apos;s all in
and i mean , by the time that i &apos;m not allowed to make the impact , the severe fight of a man &apos;s
there &apos;s holimentalities in life , and there &apos;s challenges and each person &apos;s being different , and any person is different to do it , but the question isn &apos;t whether we &apos;re acting with wiggalities or not , but how
so it &apos;s not just for us to be responsible for people that we love to keep to keep it comfortable , but they &apos;re also doing good for
and we don &apos;t have to have a little kid when we feel like they can &apos;t adapt to . . .
you can clearly divide two things : to one medical fact , amputeen and the other consensus about whether i &apos;m disabled or not . . . .
and to be honest , the only real and sustained disability i had to sit upon is because the world thinks she can describe me with those definitions . , she can
in our desires , people who care about the heart of the arts , and they &apos;re about to share the pillar , hard truth about their medical projection , or even a projection for quality of life that they expected , we have to pay attention to that somebody is actually disabled . . . .
maybe that &apos;s a real concept of what it looks about in a broken , and just paying attention to what &apos;s in a broken , and how we fix that , for each person , a greater dis@@
if we don &apos;t treat a human , and we don &apos;t have all the forces and the opportunities and the opportunities , we can actually make it to the natural sacrifice that they might
we &apos;re trying to degrade a human being for our society
so we have to look out the patology and focus on all the fields in human ways .
but most importantly , it &apos;s that between perception of our inadvertarial , and our great inventor , we
we should not dismiss the challenges , or denity , we should not try to avoid them , or to avoid them , or to be able to get them under the carpet , but it &apos;s about finding opportunities in the opportunities .
i think maybe it &apos;s more about asking to confront that we don &apos;t necessarily need to overcome them , but that we &apos;re open to the hug , to wrap it to the cow , and maybe even dance with that . too . . .
and maybe we can see it , vilities as a natural , dyandious and useful and feeling that way , we cannot yet advocate that
this year we celebrated the 200 birthsentansary of charles darwin , and when he wrote about evolution 150 years ago , darwin , in my view , has begun to something very trusti@@
i would put it in such a way : not surviving the most powerful of its kind survivement , and not the most intelligent of his kind , but the one who can incentivize changes in the
there are some creativity that makes creativity . .
not only of darwin &apos;s work , we know that the ability to survive and flourish , is determined by the struggle of human spirit , is determined by conflicts to turn through
so , again , change and additional is the greatest skills of the people .
and we know , we know what we &apos;re cutting out of , and we really can test out .
that &apos;s what &apos;s possibly the point of wigging , a perception of the iphone , a sense of our own
we can enrich ourselves as much . .
we can create a new meaning about wielous times that we &apos;re going to
maybe we can see outdoors than change
wielsen are change that we haven &apos;t yet yet been adapted to .
i think the biggest damage we &apos;ve added to believe is to believe that we should be normal .
let &apos;s tell you , who &apos;s
there is no normal thing .
there &apos;s the usual thing . the typical one , but not the normal , and would you really know that poor , gray person , if you really had
i think it &apos;s not .
it would be great if we could put that paradigm in the normal context of the kind of possibilities or the strength to even make it even more dangerous , to exchange out the forces of very many people , and invite them to bring their special and valuable ability into the society . . .
so what you found is that , you know , anthropions of our society have been asking for a staff : being useful and contributing a contribution .
there is evidence that already neanderthals had , 60,000 years ago , older people and people with severe physical injury , and that may be because the life experience in the over-survival of these people has been more valuable . .
they don &apos;t have these people as broken and ineffective ; they were treated as something special and valuable .
a few years ago , i went to the town where i grew up , in a ground-market market in the northeast of pennsylvania , and i was standing there in a magnificent tomato .
it was summer , and i was shorting . .
and i hear a guy behind me saying , &quot; well , if that wasn &apos;t aimee mullins . &quot; . &quot;
and i turned around and i &apos;m looking at these elderly man . i had no clue who
and i said , &quot; sorry , sir , we know ? i can &apos;t remember them . &quot; . not to
and he said , &quot; well , you &apos;re not going to remember me
when i first saw it , i brought her out of the gut of her mother . &quot; .
oh , the guy .
and of course , it &apos;s got click . . .
this was dr. keene , a man i knew just from narrative my mother on this day because i , of course , got too late , i &apos;d be too late to my birthday two weeks . too
the doctor for the pratatal diagnostics of my mother was in a vacation , and my parents had the man who brought me to the world at all .
and because i was born without waking legs and my feet had measured to them , and i just had a few toes on this one , and i had a few toes on the other foot , and it was the overman , that strangers had to get the bad news .
he said to me , &quot; i had to say to your parents that you would never walk , and never become the way that other kids would never live , and they &apos;ve never been a steady way of being , and since then they &apos;ve just been ramped me . &quot; &quot; since then ,
i found that it took time cups of time in my entire childhood , whether i &apos;d won a bookstore in the second class , whether i &apos;d won a bookpost in the second class in the second class , whether i was going around the crusade , or one of my sports seats , in the second grade , whether i had been around to halloween in the world &apos;s finance , and he used that snibiting dissection to teach his students to teach
and he called this part of his short class that &apos;s the potential for the human willingness .
you can &apos;t emphasize enough , the key thing that this issue can be for the quality of a human being .
and dr. kean kept saying , he said , &quot; i learned that kids , if they don &apos;t know anything else , and even if they get a little bit of support , if you keep kids to keep themselves , then children can achieve a lot . &quot;
see , dr. kean changed his thinking . .
he understood that medical diagnosis , and how somebody relate to it , are two different things .
and i also changed my thinking over time when i asked me about 15 years ago , if i had been divorced by the age 15 , if i had been divorted for legs for legs and bone , i would have been a second . . . .
i was usually meant to be normal . . . .
if you ask me today , i &apos;m not that sure . .
and this is what happened because i &apos;ve had something with my legs and not in spite of that experience . . .
and maybe this change could happen because i was faced with so many people who have opened me doors , instead of people who wanted to have me , or have an imagination , i want to give
you see , it really takes a really only human being to show you how to manifest your powers , and they &apos;re on the
if you can enlist someone to activate their own inner strength -- the human mind is so disincipated -- if you can do that for somebody in a critical moment , they &apos;re a very good teacher . for these people .
they teach them to open up their doors . .
the real meaning of the word &quot; outcome &quot; in the word &quot; &quot; the &quot; &quot; &quot; is &quot; in the word &quot; &quot;
it means that in one , you know , that in one , the potential is ti@@
so again , what potential do we want to call ? ?
in the &apos; 60s , a study study was conducted in the u.k. , and then the next college study was converted into all 12 schools
they call this &quot; streaming here &quot; in the united states , we call this &quot; tracking . &quot;
students are cut up notes . . . . . .
and the student is being checked to be checked to the more teachers , get the better teachers and so on
you &apos;ve got a couple of time in time with a three-month period of time , &quot; the note , &quot; very good , and they told them they &apos;re mad that they were very clever , and after three months they really wrote one . . after three months they
and of course , it breaks the heart that the other way in which the people told the people who told you were just enough . . . . . .
and then it was also after three months . . . .
but only those who were still in school -- except the students who had snatched school .
the crucial thing about this study was that the teachers were not constrained .
the teachers didn &apos;t know that something was changed . .
they were just told that the students are one-to-one students and the students that are enough enough , and the same is the same student and they &apos;ve taught them something to do . .
the but only if real we discan ability do is it a , broken the mind human a spirit mind continuthat es has to been hope broken to has hope no to more be hope a . very he , finvery ds honest no and more emotional beautiful thing , , and and he
then doesn we &apos;t put count our our power natural really capacity positive , . childcurious and curifanosity t, asy and , our we inreally namake te our capacity forces to positive imagination . . . . . . . . .
when a mind has this brain , we can create a new reality and new understanding . . . .
i want to end with a poem that was confined by an persian poet called hafiz in 14th century , and my friend jacques debois has told me , and the poem is called &quot; the god who only knows four words . &quot; &quot; every child knows god , not the god of the name , not the god of the left , but the god who only knows about four words and all repeat over , he says , &quot; come dance with me
come dance with me . thank you . . . . . .
how would you want to be better than you &apos;re currently ?
so if i had to think that , through a few changes in their genes , they could have a better memory -- precise , more speed . . .
or do they want to be a fitter , more powerful , more power . .
would how you about like living to for become good more health attra?
ctive and health confi? dent ? ? ? it
or maybe they &apos;re one of those who &apos;ve always been honored for more creativity .
which would you like the least ? ?
which would you like to have if you could have one ?
creativity .
how many people would choose creativity ?
raise your hands . let me see .
a few . probably , about many of the creative people there . .
that &apos;s very good .
how many would have to decide for a good
a couple more . .
how about fitness ?
a few less .
what about longevity ?
ah if , you the could majority have . one the of lthese um, p it
i would like be to a see very , different as world a . physician .
is that all accounts ? ?
or is it possible ? ? .
evolution has been a continuing topic on the ted conference , but today i want to give you the point of a drug of medicine . . .
the great genetics in the 20th century , t.bt dobbhansky , who was a communicant in the russian orthodox church , once wrote a paper that was called &quot; nothing in biology . &quot; &quot; nothing in biology . &quot; &quot; in the universe . &quot;
now , if you &apos;re one of these who accept the proof of biological evolution , this would be a very good time , to turn off your hearing device -- and i &apos;ll give you permission -- and maybe you can take a look at cathryn tentz &apos;s book , which is about being wrong , because nothing in the other day will make some sense for you . . . . that
but if you accept biological evolution , you think , is it just about the past , or is it about the future ? the
is it true for others or is it also us ? ?
this is another view of the tree of life .
in this picture , i &apos;ve got a bush as a center of the despair in all directions , because if you look at the edges of the tree of life , all the existing specially in evolutionary terms , they have been in evolutionary terms : they survived ; it &apos;s meant to demonstrate its environment , to demonstrate startling
the human part of the bug , far at the end , is the puff of the pun . , of course , is what
we in &apos;re this two period by of a time common , ancemaybe stthere or were of 20 ancient or chimpanze@@
25 es different , speciabout zations a from new homchimpanzeinie ds about . six or . eight
some of them have come and left
we &apos;ve been here for about 130,000 years ago .
it seems that we &apos;re pretty disturbed by the other parts of life , but actually , most of the building , the basic mechanisms of our cells are pretty much the same . ,
so , you realize that we can use them to be able to make the mechanisms of a common bacterium to produce the code of the human insulic , which is used to
this is not like humaninsulin ; this is the same protein that &apos;s chemically disconnected from what comes from the pancreas . . . .
and as we talk about bacteria , what &apos;s aware of you that every one of us in our gut is more bacterious than the cells are leading in the
maybe 10 times as many .
i mean , think , if antonio damasio asks you to think of her self-portrait , think about the bacteria ?
our gut is a wonderful host environment for these bacteria . .
it &apos;s warm , it &apos;s dark , it &apos;s wet , it &apos;s very comfortable . .
and you &apos;ll all be nutrients that you could just want to offer yourself without efforting . hard to
it &apos;s a really easy way to get bacteria , with occasional interruptions of unintended , jeoda forced to get a handle
but else , they &apos;re a magnificent environment for these bacteria , just like they &apos;re for their lives .
they help in the discharge of food , and they protect certain diseases . . . .
but what will happen in the future ?
are we in a kind of evolutionary equilibrium in a form of
or are we supposed to be different -- something that perhaps is adapted to the environment ? ? that perhaps is
now , let &apos;s take a step back over the big bang before 14 years ago -- the earth , the solar system , about four and a half billion years ago -- the first indication of creatures , maybe three or four billion years ago -- and then the human species , which will then transform in the last 130,000 years . , and then the human species , which will last in the last 30 thirds of years . as
in this vast unfinished symphony of the universe , life on earth just measured in a short way ; the animal kingdom , like a single petboard , and the human life , a little
we were . .
this now also , represents when the i behavior was of a this &quot; talk ne, minwhich ing is on why
college i , hope i it had &apos;s my a first good bipleasure ologito c enjoy cour. ses .
i was fascinated by the elegant and beauty of biology .
i fell into the power of evolution , and i was having something very fundamental : most of the existence of life in the individual organisms , each cell , and all of the genetic information of the cell is going to be more extended to both tods . . . cells .
but at the time , the multi-plotular organisms began to change things .
sexual reproduction goes into the picture .
and most importantly , with the introduction of sexual reproduction , on the other hand , the rest of the body will be degraded .
in fact , you could say that the inevitable of your body in evolution at the same time is the sexual reproduction of the body in the same moment .
now i have to confess , when i was a college student , i thought , okay , sex / death , sex / death , death for sex -- it seemed like a pretty comfortable at that point , but with every year , it &apos;s my increased two-stick . at that time , it
i &apos;ve come to understand the feelings of george burns who introduced his show in the &apos; 90s . in las vegas . .
and one night , it &apos;s a picking from his wall room . .
he opens the door .
in she front looks of at him him , and a he beautiful says spi, t &quot; sho@@
i w&apos;m girl here . for super. -sex . . &quot; .
&quot; that &apos;s wonderful , &quot; says , &quot; i &apos;m going to take the soup . &quot;
i came to see that as a doctor , i was doing a goal that was different than the goal of evolution -- not inevitable , just different . . . .
i &apos;ve tried to keep the body . .
i wanted to keep us healthy .
i wanted to restore the health of a disease
i wanted us to live a long and healthy life .
evolution is everything going on the further part of the genome to the next generation , adapting and survival generation generation generation .
from an evolutionary point of view , you and i are like boats , rocksters , to send the genetic spots into the next step of the orbit to get to the sea . .
i think we would all be able to get the mood out of the woody allen to say , when he said , &quot; i don &apos;t want to get any im@@
i don &apos;t want to be a person . &quot;
evolution doesn &apos;t inevitably mean that it &apos;s alive to pre@@
it wasn &apos;t necessarily compromised to the biggest , the strongest or the fastest , and even the smartest one
evolution primanded the creatures that are best adapting to their
it &apos;s the only test and success . . .
and on the bottom of the ocean are the bacteria that are thermophil , and by doing so , the bump will be used to legally , if they were there , it would cook that they had cooked fish to follow their hands up . . . .
so , what does that mean when we look back on what &apos;s going on in evolution , and how we think about space in evolution , and , in particular , we might expect to see the next phase , i would say there are a number of ways . .
the first is , we &apos;re not going to be able
we &apos;ve reached a kind of equilibrium .
and the reasons for that were that we were first in medicine , and we have a lot of genes to get the symptoms that would be selected and removed from the population . the population .
and second , we as a species of species has been charged by our environment that we &apos;ve been able to adapt to us just as much as we &apos;re adapted to
and by the way , we &apos;re traveling and circulating and mixing and mixing so much that they can no longer tell , that isolation is necessary for the evolution to find stat@@
a second option is that it will be a evolution of the traditional way , of course , unequipped by the forces of
and the argument here , here was the wheels of evolution slowly , but they are uncompromised . .
and so far , the isolation goes when we colonize planet , it &apos;s going to be insulation and the changes in the environment , which could make evolution naturally in natural ways . .
but is there a third option to lock a more intriguing , fascinating , and ascilla , and
i call it neo-evolution ; the new development that is not natural , but led by us as an individual , and i decided to do that in the decisions that we make
now , how could this happen ?
how could it be possible that we could do this ?
let &apos;s start by looking at reality that people today today are making decisions about their offspring . . .
they are , in some cultures , to have more men than women . . . .
it &apos;s not necessarily good for society , but is what the individual and the family choose . . .
so if you think that if it wasn &apos;t just possible that your child &apos;s eyes could be able to pick up your child &apos;s , and to remove genetic adaptation , that would cure disease and prevent prevention .
what if they could make the genetic changes to eliminate diabetes or alzheimer &apos;s disease or reduce cancer risk or stroke to the risk of a
would you like to do it , these changes in your genes ?
if we look out , these kinds of changes are going to be increasingly possible .
the human genome project started in 1990 , and it took 13 years .
it cost 2.7 billion dollars .
the next year , in 2004 , they could do the same for 20 million dollars to get the same thing to do for about four
today it , &apos;s you not can going make to a take sequence a of long the time three to billion be base a pareality irs , of that the it human will genome be to
1,000 a dollars price of of human about genom$ es 20, ,000 and and it in will the increasingly space be of available about to a everyone week . . . .
a week ago , the national academy was awarding engineering for the 30-dollar prize prize , the draat prize prize prize prize prize prize , and the wildest emptines , two scientists who have become independent techniques that have developed the natural process of evolution to encourage evolution to work and to need more and more protein in a more efficient way -- which frances arn@@
a few years ago , the coffee price was the scientist shinya yamanaka for his research in which he took a adult skin of food , a fibrocrist , and by the manipulation of just four genes that the cell induced to a pluripotent stem cell -- a cell potentially capable of being able to be random in your body . . a cell
these changes are in place .
the believe same it technology or that not produ, ces it human &apos;s insuan lin experimentin al bacteria study is in that the viruses gang can against make influthat enz, a
not that just &apos;s protection been , built but in can the also cells serve of imma unity tabagainst let other plant viruses . . . . . .
can you imagine something good that comes from tock ? ?
this is all of all reality , and in the future , we will be able to do a lot
so , imagine if there &apos;s only two other
you can change the cells in your body , but what if you could change the cells &apos; cells ? ?
what if they could change the sperm and the egwn cells , or the newly fertied egg , to give their children a better chance of a healthier living -- irongy-idioking diabetes , reduced the risk of cancer ? the risk of cancers ?
who &apos;s not going to be healthier ?
and then the analytical technique , same engine of science that can enable the changes to prevent disease , could also make us to adopt it , to adopt simple attributes , to adopt a hyper-capacity .
why not have the headness of a single club , especially when you can expand it with the next generation of watson-machine ? , when you
why not have fast muscle fibers that will enable you to run faster and longer ? ?
why no longer ? ?
these are going to be disruptive .
and if we &apos;re at a place where we can continue to the next generation , and we can adopt the attribute that we want , we become transformed by old style of evolution to neo-evolution . evolution
we &apos;re going to have a process that probably requires 100,000 years of that , and we can compress it in a thousand years -- and maybe even to the next 100 years
these are decisions where their grandchildren are going to be able to get to their grandchildren . .
do we use these decisions to form a society that is better , the more successful ? friendiness ? more
or will we become selectively different , which we want to have for some of us , and not for others ? ?
are we going to form a society of dielrhea and uniform , or robuster and more , and more like
these are the kinds of questions we need to face . .
and most of all , we &apos;ll ever be able to develop the wisdom , and mature , who we &apos;re going to need to make these decisions ? ? ? that we &apos;re going
in the good way , in the evil , and early as you might think , these decisions are us . .
thank you .
i want you to imagine something , a portable robot that gives you human power , or another one that helps you to stand up and go to the ride . .
in berkeley bionics , this robot is exoskeletonated .
they &apos;re not something they put in the morning and exposure you to an embound , and increase their speed at the bottom , and that will help you to keep their balance . . . . .
that &apos;s indeed the real melting of human and machine . .
but not only that -- that &apos;s what interests and connects to the universe and other devices out there .
it &apos;s not just a crazy idea . .
to just show you what we &apos;re working on , we &apos;re going to start talking about the american soldiers who are on average , about 100 pounds on its back , and it &apos;s the question that they should be contributing more .
of course , this leads to some major complications -- spinal injury , 30 percent of it -- chronical spinal injury .
so we thought we would take this challenge and create an exoskeleton that would help us deal with this problem .
so let me introduce you now to hulque -- or the human universal you carcarr .
soldier : with the hulc exoskeleton , i can carry 200 pounds above a variety of different terrain , for
his flexible design allows to get a deep way to ring and to make a very simple mood .
it feels what i want to go , where i want to go and reach my strength and indoors . . .
we &apos;re so far here to imagine the industrial partner that this device , this new exoskeleton , this
so it &apos;s true . .
let &apos;s now look at our viewing clielly users , something i &apos;m particularly passionate about . .
there are 68 million people who are masting around the world . . .
that &apos;s about one percent of population population . .
and that &apos;s indeed a conservative estimate .
so we &apos;re often talking about very young people with back-cord injury in their life -- 20s , &apos; 30s , and the wheelchair is the only option . , they were made the way they want . a wheelchair is
but it &apos;s also about aging population , which is multiplied . .
and pretty much the only option -- if it &apos;s a brain stream , or anything of complications -- is the wheelchair
and so , by the way , for the atmosphere , we &apos;ve had a lot of success in this .
so we thought , we could start to write a whole new chapter in the field
now , let me introduce you to an ele-based , which is carried by amanda boxar , who has been a spinal cord injury 19 years ago , which has the result that she couldn &apos;t walk for 19 years and
thank you .
as i said , amanda is carrying our ele@@
it has sensors .
his completely non-invasive sensors in the crutches , send back the signals to our onboacy computer , attached to your back .
here &apos;s a battery packaging , the motor engine is on your hips , as well as your kneater , you move forward in this pretty lousy and very natural gangmic . . . .
i was 24 years old , and i was in tyitor , as a monsoon cacktree , as a skiing ride . a
in a fraction of a second , i lost every sense and every movement underneath my reckens
not long after that , a doctor in my hospital room and he said , &quot; you know , you know , you &apos;ll never go again . &quot;
and that was 19 years ago . 19
he &apos;s a flourishing every five hopes from my consciousness .
adaptive technologies have been able to learn me to go again , drive scoump , and even drive with my hands . . .
but nothing was invented that would let me go , right now . .
thank you .
as you can see , we have the technology , we have these platforms to meet and argue with them . . .
it &apos;s in our hands , and we &apos;ve got the whole potential here to change life , to change future generations -- not just for the military , or amanda , and all the wheelchay-directors , but for
thank you .
in new york in new york , i &apos;m a ceo of developing a nonprofit organization called robin
if i don &apos;t fight poverty , i &apos;m fighting as a first-nurse of a firefire at a volunteer debr@@
now in our city , in the volunteers of a high-skill fire department , they have to be supported very early on the brush to be able to collaborate . .
i remember my first fire .
i was the second volunteer on the brush , so i was really good at it . well . .
but it was still a weapon against the other volunteers who were in charge of the main man and figure out what our work would be . . .
when i was finding the main man , he had just in a very serious conversation with the homeowner who had surely had one of her worst days of her life .
it was in the middle of the night , and she was in the bedroom and barfoot under a screen out in the rain , while her house was on the flames . . . . . .
the other volunteers , who had been coming out of me , is -- let &apos;s call lex luther -- did the big man first and was asked to go into the house and save the dog of the
the dog ! i was a ling-lost . .
there was some lawyer or a commercial administration , who was now able to tell people that he went into a burning house to get people to be able to get to a burning house , just because it was five seconds faster than
now , i was the next one
the main man &apos;s heading to me .
he said , &quot; bezos , you need to go into the house . .
you have to go up , you know , go to the fire , and you have to take this woman a few shoes . &quot; .
i swear it .
now , not exactly what i hope to think of , but i went out -- the stairs , the hallway , the hallway , the &quot; the firefiremen , &quot; which was pretty much done with the deledle , were already pretty ready to take some shoes . in the
i know what you &apos;re thinking , but i &apos;m not a hero .
i was wearing my rees down , where i &apos;d come to my front door , my cheady and the loving dog .
we wore our disposal out to the door , where , not surprisingly , his significantly more attention took when i was .
a few weeks later , the fire rush got a letter to the homeowner where she would go to rescue her house and her house .
one of the things that &apos;s happened is that someone had a mastered friendliness . a pair of
in my career , robin hood and my side profession as a volunteer , volunteer fireman i &apos;m witnessing from generosity and kindness at the big scale , but also the next love of mind and the muce of individuals . . . . .
and you know what i learned ? what
they &apos;re all important .
so if i look around this room and see people who &apos;ve either achieved a precious achievement or they are on their way on , i want to offer back this way : don &apos;t wait .
don &apos;t wait to make a difference in another , until you &apos;ve reached your first million .
if you give them something , they give it up now .
you put it in a caring kitchen , you put a park in the
be a mentor .
not every day will offer us a chance to save a person &apos;s life , but every day we give us an opportunity to change one . .
so they go out ; they save the shoes .
thank you .
bruno guissani :
thank you .
i &apos;m just coming back from a community that &apos;s known the secret of the pro@@
a place where women are leading the reciters , with sex , say , &quot; they &apos;re going to say , where fun is a serious thing .
and no , it &apos;s not an out-man or a san
ladies and gentlemen , their relations . .
this is the world of the wild bonoo at the base of congo . .
bonobos are together with chimpanzees our next living relatives . .
that means we have a common ancestor , an evolutionary grandmother , who lived about six million years ago . .
now , chimps are known for their aggressive responsibility .
but unfortunately , we have this aspect of dedicating human evolution in the narrative of human evolution . . .
but bonobos show us the other side of the medal .
as chimpanzees of the chimps of great , fear impacting , the bonobo-society is led to empower@@
they really came up with something , because this leads to an extent to be an intolerant society in the killing of violence . .
but unfortunately , bonobos are the least known as the primates . .
they live in the deep of the congolese urwhds , and they &apos;re just the observation of accessible
congo is a paradoxical version -- a country of extraordinary biodiversity and beauty , but also the heart of the darkness itself -- the scene of a violent argument that has struggles and nearly so many lives have been in the same world world war .
it &apos;s not surprising that this destruction is also endangered to the survival of
meat and the decline of the tree performs to you , not even to be able to fill the kind of a stadium with the bonobos -- and even there we are , frankly , to be
and yet , in this country of violence and chaos , you can hear a hidden laughter that the trees are
who are these related ? ?
we know what &quot; love &quot; monse &quot; monkey , because they have more frequent , bisexual sex , with shifting partners , and rules so conflict and social issues
i &apos;m not saying that that &apos;s the answer to all the humanitarian problems -- because the people lives of bonoo more than the cama sutra .
bonobos -- how humans -- love to play their life for their own lives
play is not just about the games .
for us , and it &apos;s fundamental to the engagement of relationships and care of tolerance . . .
and we &apos;re learning that we trust and the rules of the game . . .
but game and resilience is about creating diversity and diversity , and it &apos;s all about generating diversity -- diversity of interactions , diversity of ways , diversity of
and when you see bonobos playing the game , you see the evolutionary origin of human salmon , dance and ritu@@
play is the tit that holds us each . .
now , i don &apos;t know about you , but i want to show you some unique footage right out of the wild . a little
first of all , a ball game on bonobo-style -- and i don &apos;t think it &apos;s on
so here we see a young female and males in a searchy game . .
look at what she does . what she
this could be the evolutionary origin of this , &quot; it &apos;s packing him in the egws . &quot; .
i think it &apos;s more that i think it &apos;s more than it .
yeah !
so , sex games are spreading both with bonobos and in
and this video is really interesting , because it shows -- and this video is really interesting , because it shows the idea of the most powerful , which brings up new elements -- like the hodes -- and as the game both asks both trust and promoting -- as it does , and as
but the game is a form changer . .
play is a form of form , and it can take many forms , some of which are quiet , phantom , curious -- maybe just to discover the amazing renewy . . .
and i want to show you , this is fuku , a young female , and she plays peaceful with water .
i think , just like you do , sometimes we can do it alone , and we &apos;ve poisoned out the boundaries of our inner
and it &apos;s this playful curiosity that we &apos;re doing , and interact , and the unexpected linked that we form are the actual nutrition of creativity . . .
this is just a little bit taste on the insights , the bonobos , us in our past and the
but they also have a secret for our future , a future that we have to adapt to increasingly increasing challenges , through greater creativity and potent cooperation .
the secret is that the game is the game of the key to these skills
in other words , play is our adaptation joker .
to adapt to us , successfully , to be successful , we need to play .
but will we make the best of our play drive ? ?
play is not angry . .
it &apos;s essential .
for bonoo , and humans equally multiplored , life doesn &apos;t work on teeth and claws
just when it &apos;s barely obly , play is maybe the most legitimate . . .
and so my primate coaches , let &apos;s take this gift of evolution , and play together , as we &apos;re making the creativity and the wonder of the wonder .
thank you .
i want you to imagine two pairs in the middle of 1979 , on the same day , and each one is a baby -- okay . . . . .
so two pairs , each one &apos;s a baby .
now i don &apos;t want you to spend too much time , because if you think about the manufacturing all the time , you won &apos;t listen to me . , you won &apos;t listen to me .
think about that for a moment . .
and in this scenario , you imagine that in a case that was sperm , in a case , the sperm is a y chomosaum that &apos;s hitting the
and in the other case , it &apos;s the sperm by the x of the x , which is the x chromosome of the eg@@
they &apos;re both abuse of both samels
we &apos;ll come back later to these people later .
most of my time , i put two hatls on . .
and below a hat , i &apos;m working on the history of anatom@@
i &apos;m a study historian , and in this case , i study how people moved to anatomy -- meaning human body , animal bodies -- as they were moving through the body fluid , with body concepts , how they &apos;ve thought about body fluid , they &apos;ve thought about body concep@@
the other hat i &apos;ve carried at in my work is that activist , as a dehumanition lawyer -- or , i sometimes say , as a dedulent lawyer -- of people who are patients of physicians .
in this case , i worked with people who have the social types of social norms . , in this
so , for example , i worked with people who are in the siamesan twins , two people in a body . .
i &apos;ve been working with people with jeweler growing -- so people who were smaller than common . . . .
and many often i &apos;ve been working on sexual people whose gender is atbial -- that people who are not indicating the average male or female type of body types .
and as a general word , we can use the word sexual disposal .
intersexuality comes in a lot of different forms .
i &apos;ll just give you a couple of examples of the types of sexual variants that don &apos;t give the male or female standard .
in one case , maybe someone with a xy chromosome , maybe someone with a xy chromosome , and the sars &apos;s chomoza &apos;s bal , and we have the nangonbotting stage of all of these . on top
and that &apos;s why the testes are spending the femaline stage testosterone .
but because this individual is missing the recipes to detect the testosterone , the body reacts to testosterone . reactors
and that &apos;s called androgenreceptor . . . .
so , much testosterone , but not the reaction to that . .
as a result , the body develops more of the typical female transactions .
when the child is born , it looks like a girl .
she &apos;s a girl . she &apos;s being raised as a girl .
but and it they &apos;s do mostly a about few taking tests the , puand berwe ty find and that growing instead your of breabursts row and and developing irthem ri, gate but
, not you getting &apos;re their actually periholding othe ks tiuntil den somebody of comes egfrom gs it and that the &apos;s ua terlittle us bit of different being . a y
and it &apos;s important to understand that you can actually hold a man , but they &apos;re not really . . .
women , like men , have some place in our body called adrenaline expresses . .
they &apos;re in the back part of our body .
and the siblings are android blazing , which is virilizing hormones . .
most of the women , as i do -- i think i &apos;m a typical person -- don &apos;t do what i do , but don &apos;t think i &apos;ve got the most beautiful chromosoming , but i think most women like i do speak to androvers
we produce androgen , and we &apos;re talking to androgens . .
the consequence of that is that someone like myself actually has a brain that was exposed to more androgens than a woman who was born with hostile and has a androgen@@
so gender is really complicated because intersexual animals are not only in the middle of the spectrum of gender -- in a sense , you can be about the entire range of stretches .
another example . a couple of years ago , i got the phone call of a 19 year-old man who was born as a boy , had a girlfriend , had sex with his girlfriend , lived as a man , and he just found that he had eggs and a terurial . . . . a
he had an extreme form of innate cu hyperloy . . . .
he and &apos;s as spea cked result x, x his chromogensome it, alia and became in unthe lowomcked b , , his his brain siwas blexings posed were to acthe tively
typical so male active part that of they the would horessentially mhave one a spectrum male . horm. one environment . . . . . . . . .
and when he was born , he looked like a guy -- no one had a
and it was only when he became 19 , he got enough medical problems , in fact , because he was internally menmed that the doctors were out of the inner part of the room . a lot of the doctors found
okay , so let &apos;s give you a quick example of a variant of intersexuality
some people with xx chromosome , develop something called oeuestis , which is corrected by hostile tissue . . . . . .
we don &apos;t know exactly why this happens . .
so gender is actually going to occur in many different ways .
the reason children with this kind of body -- whether it &apos;s zaggered or siamesic twins , whether it &apos;s internally correlated about surgeons , often being adapted to the norm , is not because it would be for their physical health of the benefit .
and in many cases , these people are completely healthy .
the reason they often be given different types of surgical interventions is because they threaten our social categories .
typically , our system is based on the idea that a specific anatomic prevention is related to a particular identity
so we have the concept that a woman is , to have a female identity , to be a female person , to be an african person means , to have an african anatomy in the way of their own history . . .
so we have this awful simplistic idea . .
and if we face a body that &apos;s actually very different to us , that we &apos;re confused to this category , and it &apos;s unsatisfied that
so and we our have nation a is lot really of based romanon tic a ideas very
in romanour tic culture concept about of individuindividualism alism . . . .
now , you can imagine how amazing it is when children are born , that are two people in a body . . . .
i &apos;ve been experiencing most of the time , the south african runner caster semenya last year , whose gender was challenged by the blinchatic world mastery in ber@@
many journalists were called me asking me , &quot; what are they going to do , who will tell us whether caster sethya is indically or male ? &quot; ? &quot; ? &quot;
and i had to explain the journalist that there &apos;s no one test . .
we now know that gender is complicated enough that we have to admit that nature doesn &apos;t deserve to us , not to the line of men , or from a female and a disambitially and female and disposal , or density ,
so we have this situation where , as we go forward , the further we &apos;re going to continue , we have to stand up with the more that these categories that we had thought about to be anatomical categories , which are very simple to creating unfortunate patterns of identity , much more distant than
and that &apos;s not just true of gender . .
it &apos;s also race , which is a lot more complicated than our terminology has failed . . . .
we &apos;re at our viewer at all sorts of uncomfortable regions .
for example , we push in the fact that we have at least 95 percent of our dna with chimpanzees . .
what should we do with the fact that we &apos;re just getting through little nucleotide ? ? ? ?
as we continue to move our science forward , we &apos;re increasingly moving into a field of uncompatiseling , where we have to recognize that the simplistic categories we probably have are too simple . . . .
we see it in all sorts of different fields of human life . .
one of the areas that we &apos;re seeing to be in our culture today , in our current culture today , are the struggle of the very beginning and the end of life . . .
we have a tough conversations on what point is a body that will be a human being , so that he has a different right than the fetal living
we have a lot of hard arguments today -- maybe not as public as in medicine -- about asking when you &apos;re dead . question : when you &apos;re dead .
our ancestors had never been so hard to fight with the question when someone was dead . . .
you &apos;ve got somebody &apos;s high feathers to be held under the nose , and if they moved , they haven &apos;t burned them . .
if they don &apos;t move it , they have buried .
but we are now in a situation where we &apos;re taking people living organs and want to put them to other people . .
and we &apos;re going to leave the world &apos;s fight with the really difficult question when someone is dead , and it brings us a really difficult situation in which we have no longer category as simple as we used to be . . as
now , you might think that the whole thing is , of course , is to make categories of one thing
i &apos;m a political progressive , i &apos;m degressive people with unusual bodies , but i have to admit , it makes me nervous . .
to understand that these categories are really a lot more insecure than we thought , does me .
and it makes me think about reconsiderations that democracy is about . .
so to tell you about this tension , i first know that i &apos;m a big fan of the founding fathers . . . . .
i know they were racalized , i know they were sexists , but they were great .
i think they were so strong and strong , and so radical , in what they were doing , i &apos;m going to climb up all the many years , the drawing kid 1776 , and it &apos;s not because of the music that &apos;s absolutely forgotten . . .
it &apos;s because of what happened with the founding fathers in 1776 .
the founding fathers have been made up of my view , the original anatomic activists , and that &apos;s why .
what they had been restrained was an anatomical concept , and they put it through another species that was radically and beautifully and 200 years
as you all remember , our greed fathers rejected the concept of monarchy , and the monarchy based on the bottom was based on anatomy . a very simplified concept of anatom@@
the old world of ancient world didn &apos;t have any concept based on dna , but they had a concept of birth right . .
they had a concept of blue blood .
they were the notion that people who had political power were supposed to have these political power because of the grandfather &apos;s father and the son to the son and so forth . .
the they foliunding sted fathe thers game , field it , &apos;s and got decided this that idea the back surand gerreol storof ing the it comthrough mona s new were an, atomthe ical common
concept com, monand s this , idea the said common that comall monhumans s were , being the equdifferences ally , created and . it was . very radia cally concept . said that . all
now they did it in part because they were part of an enlightenment system in which two things came together . .
democracy grew , but at the same time , the science grew up too . as well .
if you look at the history of the green fathers , you can see that many of you were very creative about science , and they were interested in a concept of a science world . . . .
they went from explanations of natural natural species , and things like a supernatural concept of power , back to where the transmission is based on a very vastly vague concepts of birth . .
they moved to a natural concept . . .
and for example , if you look at the independence of independence , you talk about nature and the god of nature . .
they &apos;re not talking about god and nature . .
they talk about the power of nature to tell us who we are . .
and as part of that , they managed to make us a concept that was made by anatomic complaint .
and they have a really wonderful way to do the future of civil rights movement . . . .
they don &apos;t think it was great , but what they did for us was great . . .
so what did years after that have been
for example , women used the vote right , the concept of the founding fathers , saying that anatomic comprehensials matter more than anatomic causes , and said anatomic comprehensible is not important that we don &apos;t have the voting right to have the voting right to have the voting right to own , which is right , etc . , etc . &quot; &quot; . &quot; &quot; . &quot; &quot; . &quot; &quot;
and women were arguing that successfully .
next was the successful civil rights movement , where we looked at people like soars , who are like , &quot; am i not a woman ? &quot;
we find men in the marshing tiles of the western movement , saying , &quot; i &apos;m a man .
again , people , different skin color , which deals on anatomic commonality , to anatomical differences , again , successful .
we see the same thing with disabled law movement .
the problem is , as we start to look at all the similalities , we need to start asking ourselves to question why we maintain certain separations . . .
now , comfort , i want to maintain certain slides , anatomically , in our culture . .
i want to give you a fish , for example , not the same rights as a person .
i don &apos;t want to say that we should take the anatomy off .
i so don there &apos;t are want some to ansay atomthat ic five disyear-orders olthat ds make are sense right for
to me have , their and own that commiti ment think to we sex should or keep to reget permarried toi. re
but the challenge is to try to figure out what it is and why we keep it , and whether they &apos;re meaningful .
so let &apos;s go back to those two creatures that have been actually being simped in the beginning of
we &apos;ve been two creatures , both in the middle of 1979 , exactly . . . .
so let &apos;s imagine that one of them , maria , three months was born by the last june , so it &apos;s on the third of 1980
heinrich , on the other hand , is born for the birthplace , so he &apos;s born on the 1 mar@@
just because of the fact that maria was born three months , they get all sorts of rights , they get three months before heinandians -- have a fair sex , right to drink right , right ? . . . .
heinrich has to be waiting for all this , not because he &apos;s actually got another biologically , only by the time of the presentation of his birth
we find other oddities to what they are with their rights . .
heinrich , because you think he &apos;s a male -- although i don &apos;t tell you that he &apos;s a male -- that you assume that he &apos;s male , he can now get hered , which maria does not have to worry about . . . . .
maria , despite all states , is not the same right to say that heinrich has the same right , which has heinrich to marry in
heinrich can marry a woman , but maria can only marry a woman in a few states , but mar@@
so we have this continuous anatomical categories that are problematic and fragmentally challenged in many ways .
and to me , the question is : what are we going to do , because our science is going to power this advancement in the abundance of anatomy , that we have to get to a point where we have to be in fact meeting that democracy , that
i don &apos;t want to give up science , but at the same time it feels like science is making self-interest . . . as it does
so where do we go ?
it seems like our culture is a kind of pragmatic stance , &quot; okay , we must pull a line , so we just count it in place . &quot; . &quot; . &quot;
but a lot of people are contained in a very strange position
so for example , texas was asking at a point that if you had a man to marry a man means you don &apos;t have y chromosome , and to marry a woman means you have a y chromome . . . .
now in practice , people are not testing on their chromosome . .
but it &apos;s also very bizarre because of the story i told you about the androgens receptor receptor . .
if we look at one of the founding fathers of modern democracy , dr. martin luther king , he offers us in his &quot; i have a dream . &quot; an answer . a
he says we should not ask people to be &quot; their skin , &quot; but the property of their character , &quot; they judge it , and they go beyond anatom@@
and i want to say , &quot; yes , it sounds like a really good idea . &quot;
but how do you do that in practice ? ?
how do you get people from their characters ? properties ? how
i also want to point out that i &apos;m not sure that we should put on the rights of people in terms of people because i have to admit that i know i &apos;ve heard a series of golden retrievers , which probably deserves sooners more than some people i know .
i want to argue that i probably know some bright labs of labs , the capable of capable of funeral , intelligent , rigid decisions about their sexual relations than for a few years , i know .
so how are we going to organize the question of the characteristics of the
it turns out that it &apos;s really difficult .
and a part of me wondering what if the content of a personality is something that would be machine readable in the future -- can i recognize visible by the fmri ?
do we really want to go to that one
i &apos;m not sure where we go .
what i know is that it seems really important to think about the idea that the united states is about making up the question of democracy . questions . .
in our endeavor for democracy , we &apos;ve done a really good job , and i think we &apos;d be doing it well in
we don &apos;t have the situation of , for example , in the iran , where a man who feels sexually in other men is the death of a man , unless it &apos;s ready to raise an obligation , which case he can stay alive in which case he can stay
and these sorts of states exist at us .
i &apos;m happy to say that we don &apos;t have these states -- a surgeon that i spoke a few years ago who had some camansian twins had brought to separate them , partly to make a name . , partly , to make a name .
but when i was talking to him , and i asked him why he made these interventions -- it was highly risky surgeries -- his answer was that in his country , these children would be very poor , and so he had to do it . . . , he had
i said , &quot; well , you have political asyll in arguement , rather than having surgery to separate them ? &quot;
the united states imperative opportunities to allow people to be the ones they are without the state of the state . . . . . . .
so i think we need to be a leader . .
well , just to conclude , i want to conclude that i talked to a lot of the fathers . .
and i want to think about the ways in which democracy might look , or have looked like democracy , if we were involved in the mothers . .
and i want to say something that &apos;s a feminist , and that &apos;s what i think is a very radical way of thinking about , in particular , that i think there might be different ways of aspire that will protect from different types of anatom@@
for years , because i was interested in internal sexuality , i &apos;ve also interested in the field of gender .
and one of the things that actually found interesting is the difference between men and women in terms of how they think and how they act in the world . . . . .
what we &apos;ve learned from cultural studies is that women , on average -- not every one , but on average -- more are they tend to be more complex relationships and the care for people that are vulnerable to the group , a lot of attention . . . .
and so , if we think about it , we have an interesting situation in front of us
years ago , when i was growing up , one of my graduate students , who was interested in feminism -- i considered a feminist , so does it do -- is it -- a really curious question . . .
he said , &quot; tell me what &apos;s in the feminism of marking . &quot;
and i thought , &quot; well , that &apos;s the stupidest question i &apos;ve ever heard .
in feminism , the vaccypes are about solving gender on gender , so on the feminism is not female . in
but the more i thought about it , to think about the more , that i thought there could be some female in the femin@@
this is to say that it could be something , on average , where female brains of male distinguished different things that make us more complex social relationships , and caring for the protection for the protection . .
so where the founding fathers were extremely intended to find out how individuals could be protected from the state , it &apos;s possible that if we were to cook more mothers into this concept , we &apos;ll be able to give a concept , not just how to protect , but how we can care for
and maybe that is where we &apos;re going to go to the future when we &apos;re going to take democracy out of anatomy -- less about the individual body , to think more about the individual body , and to think more about
so that if we were to make a perfect connection as people , we &apos;re thinking about what we can do for each other .
thank you .
i &apos;m jessi , and this is my suitcase .
but before i show you what i &apos;m going to do , i &apos;m going to make a very public confession , and that is , i &apos;m obsessed with outfits
i love to find a different farmup , crazy outfit , and in the last time , i still captured and blogging . .
but i don &apos;t buy anything new .
i get all my clothes out of my two-hand hand on roundland , in the standard
ooh , thank you .
use hand-shopping defeating to reduce the impact of my mind on the environment , and also to the bobging
i meet all kinds of good people ; my dollars for good for good , i see a good deal for it , and it &apos;s buying in my very personal shaping . a little bit of kindness
i mean , what am i going to find today ?
will am my i size going have to ?
like the ? color ? ?
will it cost less than 20 dollars ?
if all the answers are yes , i feel like i &apos;ve gained .
i come back to my suitcase , and tell you what i did here at ted this exciting week here at ted .
i so mean i , &apos;m what going &apos;s to going show to you get exactly someone
what with i so &apos;ve many brought out. fits . ? .
i &apos;ve brought in seven characters , and that &apos;s all . .
and in fact , underwear for just one week , i &apos;ve done it in my suit@@
i was spearching that i would wear anything else that i could wear if i first came to palm springs . . .
and because of the time she &apos;s heard of me when the woman who &apos;s running around here at ted in her underwear -- is that
and i &apos;d like to show you my outfits for this week . . .
does that sound well ?
and i also will do that as i &apos;m doing that , some of the lessons i have , whether you believe it or not , have learned from these adventures , nothing new . .
let &apos;s start with sunday . .
i call this the bright tiger . . .
you you don can &apos;t almost have always to look spend terria fic lot
for of less money than to 50 look dollars really . good . .
this whole outfit , including the jacket , which costs me 55 , and it was the most expensive piece that i had carried in this week .
monday : color is a little more
it &apos;s almost physiologically impossible , and it &apos;s very , very sticky if you &apos;re wearing light red pants
when you &apos;re happy , you lose other happy people . happy people . .
tuesday : adaptation is totally overwhelmed .
i &apos;ve spent a lot of time trying to be in my life trying to be myself , and adapt to
just be who you are .
if you surround yourself with the right people , not only do they know it ; they &apos;re also appreciating it .
you &apos;re in the wednas : embrace your inner
sometimes people say i look rather than i look , i look like i &apos;m going to play the games , or i can remember them . &quot;
i just smile and i say , &quot; thank you . &quot;
thursday : confidence is the key .
if you think you &apos;re looking good , it &apos;s almost safe . .
and if you think you &apos;re not looking good at something , you probably have to have a right
i but grew it up was with only a when mother i who turned taught 30 me , the
i day really for understood day what . that means . . . .
and i &apos;m going to summarize that for a second . .
if you think you &apos;re a wonderful person inside and out of your life , there &apos;s nothing you can &apos;t carry .
so there &apos;s no excuse for someone here in this audience . here .
we should be able to squint what we want . .
thank you .
a total of a universal truth : a universal truth -- golden pailletes to everything .
and finally , saturday : one own , unique , personal style is a great way to tell the world something about one , without having to say a word .
it &apos;s been proven to me over and over again , when this week , people came to me just because of what i was wearing , and i had great conversations . .
obviously , it &apos;s not going to fit all of my little suitcase . .
so before i go home to brooklyn , i &apos;m going to take it back to all of
because the lesson i &apos;ve been learning this week is that it &apos;s okay to leave . . .
i don &apos;t have to reasit this stuff emotionally because , in the same way , it &apos;ll always be a different crazy , colorful , radiation outfit that waited for me when i love a little bit of love in a heart and make it look for
thank you very much .
thank you .
good afternoon , everybody .
i have something i want to show you .
think of this as a visual domain . . . .
that &apos;s what we call in our lab , we call it comprehen@@
let me tell you a little bit about this .
now , if you take this picture -- i &apos;m originally italian , and every young in italy grows up in his room in his room , but the reason i show you this is to show that in the formula 1 over the last several decades , something very interesting happened . . in
so a while ago , if you wanted to win a formula a morning , then they took their budget and put money on a good driver and a good car . a good
and if the car was good enough , they won the race . . wawadays
now , now , if you want to win a race , if you want to win a race , something like this -- something that the car will monitor in real time , some thousand sensors have the information that &apos;s coming in , and then you process them to help make decisions in real time through information , and then you process them to help make decisions in real time through information . in real time ,
this would be called , in engineering teams , a real-time control system . .
and basically , it &apos;s a system that is made of two parts -- a part of a part and a reactor
what &apos;s interesting today is that real-time replacement systems start to take up in our
our cities became , in the last few years , just equipped with networks and electronics . .
they become the free computer . . .
and as a computer , they start to react in a different way , and they &apos;re perceived and driven . . . . .
and if we are to come up with cities , it &apos;s actually
i want to mention just two percent of the world &apos;s land , but 50 percent of the population are living there . 50 percent of the population there are . .
they &apos;re about 75 percent of the energy consumption -- cause to 80 percent of co2 emissions .
so if we do something with the cities , it &apos;s a big deal . .
beyond the cities , all this perceive and enhance in the objects of life .
this is from an exhibition that &apos;s called paola antonelli , for moma , later in the summer , organized .
it &apos;s called &quot; sprandy with me .
well , all of our objects , our environment , start to talk back to
in a sense , it &apos;s almost like each one of the one atoms get out there , a sensor and a capover .
and that changes radically the interaction that we have with our environment . . .
in a way , it &apos;s almost as if the old dream is michelangelo ... ...
you know , as michelangelo formed the moses , it means that he would take the hammer at the end and threw it on moses -- in fact , you can still see a little bit of pain -- and said , &quot; perché non parli ? why don &apos;t you spend ? &quot; bla@@
well , today , our environment starts to respond to us , responses first . .
i &apos;m just going to show you a few examples -- again , to embrace our environment and to embrace it .
let &apos;s start with the sense .
now the first project i want to share with you is one of the first ever our labs . .
it was born four and a half ago in italy .
and what we &apos;ve done was actually a new kind of relief to use a new kind of network that was being applied to all over the world -- this is a mobile phone network -- and it &apos;s instructional information from that network that &apos;s being collected from the courtys to understand how the city works . . .
the summer was a happy summer -- 2006 .
it was as italy as italy lasted the football
some of you remember , it was in love as italy , against france , and then at the end of the head , the head rush
and it &apos;s not , it &apos;s a ruler .
now , look at what happened that day , only by watching the activity that &apos;s going on in
here you see the city .
you can see in the middle that &apos;s the giant , the score tiber .
it &apos;s on the morning before the game .
you see the timeline . . .
early afternoon , people here and here , the calls were making and moving
the game starts -- silent .
france makes an apartment . it makes a port-.
half-time , people make a little call , go to toilet . .
second half time . end of the old play
initially , second extension ,
cide , in a moment of head . .
italy w. yeah . .
well , that night , they would all go to the center to celebrate
they saw the great impact .
the next day , they would all go to the center around the sectmate team and the prime minister at the same time
and then everyone went down .
you see the picture of the place of mars , where the roman time , where the roman time , people go to celebrate , to have a great party , and you can see the impact on the day . .
well , this is just one example of how we can feel the city in a way that we couldn &apos;t have done a few years ago . in a
even more , for feeling , this isn &apos;t about people , it &apos;s not about people , but about things we use
now , today we know about where our things are coming . .
this is a map that shows you all the chips that have a mac computer , how they came together .
but we just know just about where things go .
so in this project , we &apos;ve designed some very small marker to track the trash as he goes through the system
so we started with some volunteers a little more than a year ago , and we helped us do something more than a year ago , in seattle , who would pick things up -- various types of things you can see -- things you might throw away .
and then we have little chips that were scraped out little brands , that little brands
so here are the results we &apos;ve got right now .
from after sea attle
week ... .
with this information , we realized there &apos;s a lot of inefficient things in the system .
we can actually do the same things in the fact that we do
the data was not available before .
but that &apos;s happening a lot of things , and it &apos;s complimented things . complicated
but the other thing about the other thing is that we think that if we see every day , the cup we throw away , not just disappeared , that it &apos;s still somewhere on the planet
and the plastic bottle that we all throw away every day . . .
and if we were to show that to people , then we can promote behavior change . .
so that &apos;s the project for this project .
my colleague at mit at mit could be more about reading , and the many other wonderful things you can perceive with perceive , but i want to talk to you in the second part of the world that we were discussing at the beginning and that &apos;s the empathy of our environment .
and the first project is something we did in yeagoza , spain . in spaagoza
and it began with a question of the mayor , who came to us and said that spin and southern europe have a beautiful tradition of water in the public level of architecture as part of architecture
and the question was : how could you bring technology , new technology ? a technology ?
and one of the ideas that was done at mit in a workforce was , you know , imagine this pig , and valve , magnetic lile , valks , open and close . . .
they cause something like a canopy of the audiences of water .
if these imaging falls down , they can write on the patterns , images , text . . .
and you can approach it , and it will open up to make you go through this picture as you can see . .
well , we presented the mayor of belhole .
it &apos;s got very loaded .
and we got the mission to design the expo building . . . . .
we called it the digital water of pavilion
the whole building was underwater . .
there are no toors or windows , but if you approach them , it &apos;s going to open up and put it in
the roof was covered with water too .
and if it &apos;s wiclly , if you want to reduce the syringe , you can even let the roof down .
or you could just tune the building , and the whole architecture , like in this case , you know , this date , that time , when you drove up the roof , you get pictures of people that were there and saying , &quot; you &apos;ve destroyed the building .
no , they didn &apos;t break the building , it &apos;s just that architecture disappears . . . .
so here &apos;s how the building works
you see the person who asks what happens inside . . .
and here you see me looking at the testing of sensors that opened the water , not getting wet
now , if i should tell you what happened one night when all the senses were stopped . .
but it was actually a more much fun fun night .
all the gagoza &apos;s children came to the building , because the way they play with the building was quite different . .
no and longer that a was building , that for would us open , to very allow exciting you , to because allow as you architecto ts do , one engineers , , but as a designers building
, that we still always has think pabout ings how and people holes who in use the things water we , design you . had to . go to . just getting . we@@
but the reality is always unpredictable .
and that &apos;s the beauty of creating things that are used and interacting with the people
here &apos;s a picture of the building with the physical imaging points , the imaging points of water and the projections on it . . .
and this is what brought us to this project that &apos;s been going on for you now .
imagine this kind of imagery , you could actually start flying .
imagine you could have small hubbs that fly through the air , and each of you with a little graphic of your light , your light , you can move through it almost like a cloud .
here &apos;s the video .
imagine a helicopter , like the one you saw earlier , that moves with others , totally sync . syn@@
you can have this cloud . .
you can have a kind of a flexible screen or a trajectory , like this one -- an equal formation
or even unregulated , as what &apos;s changing , the light is not the position of the imaging . . .
they can play with different species . .
imagine the screen just appears in different formats or sizes , in different resolution . dem@@
but then , it could just be a 3d cloud of sculptures that you can go to and through which you move through , which you can see from many , many
here &apos;s a real flyfid-wing control that goes down like that , which is a smo@@
when you turn on the lights , it looks like this . so the way we saw it before .
imagine that every single person is cared by .
it could have a pulse to have a pulse of every single vision that comes from people , the movements of the people or
i want to show you something about it . . .
we worked with roberto bolle , who &apos;s one of the greatest ballet dancers of our time -- the collectrle on the metropolitan theater in new york , and the scala in mailan -- we took his movement in 3d sample to use it as a pulse
here you see roberto dancing . .
on the left-hand side , you see the graphics , the different interfaces .
it &apos;s at the same time , and a real-time 3d scan
so you can get all the movement to begin .
you can do that all the time .
but then , once we have the imaging points , you can play and play with color motion and turn it . . . .
we want to use this as a potential impulse for the river . a kind of a
i want to show you the latest project we &apos;re working on .
it &apos;s something that we &apos;re working on for the olympics in london
it &apos;s called the cloud -- the
so , the idea is , again , imagine this , we can put the people involved in something , change the environment -- almost something like this , as we call the cloud , we &apos;re using a scanning incense
imagine that everybody can give a little donation for a point . . .
i think that the remarkable part of the last few years has been that we &apos;ve changed from a physical world , and we &apos;ve changed from a physical world . . . .
this has all digitized , knowledge , and it &apos;s accessible by the internet . .
now , for the first time , we can do the first time -- and the campaign canellas has shown this -- we can now move from the digital world , from self-organizing forces of
this can be , in our case , we use it to design and to create a symbol . .
that &apos;s something that &apos;s built in the city
but tomorrow can it , to give us the challenges -- think about climate change , or the co2 emissions -- how do we go from the digital world to the physical shift . . . .
so the idea is that we actually engage the people in which they put things together together , collectively
and the cloud again is a cloud of sculptures , in the same way that the actual cloud is a cloud of particles . . .
and it these &apos;s particles a are physical water type , of while physics our in cloud london
is , a but cloud it of &apos;s sculpcovered tures with . imaging . points
you can move inside of the inside and make different kinds of
you can actually share it from the bottom , the most important moments for publicity in 2012 and share it as a kind of connection to community . . .
so both the physics cloud in the sky and something that you can go about the top , like live of new mining pings . .
you can go in . .
and a kind of digital glog that night -- but the most important , a new kind of experience for anybody who &apos;s going to go to the top .
thank you .
so as an artist , i &apos;m very important to the context
i &apos;m trying to express that people are not separate from nature , and that everything is interconnected . . .
the first time i was seeing in antarctica , where i saw my first iceen . .
i &apos;m dreaming of awe
my heart was a liint , and i was trying to figure out what was in front of me . . . what i was
the iceberg to put me in my feet almost 60 feet from water , and i could just stack out that this was a snavel flag on a different snowflake year , year after year . after
ice mountains are born as calf of a glacier or by breaking out ice sheets . . .
every iceberg has its own individual personality .
they &apos;re manipulating their environment in both ways with their environment and their experiences .
some of the refers to come up and make cites and snuts , while others don &apos;t mind it , and they collapse in a dramatic , dramatic passion
when you look at the iceberg , you just think about it that they are isolated , separated and alone , just as we humans see us . . as we humans
but the truth is far away from it .
as a ice chunk melts , i paint its current atmosphere . .
it meltes down in the chunk of mineral drinking water , which is releasing a lot of life forms . .
i &apos;m going to go on my chalter to do this coloege , as if i do portraits of my ancestors , knowing that they exist in this individual eyeball , and
it &apos;s not a death when you melt ; it &apos;s not a end , it &apos;s a procreation of your path across the life cycle .
part of the ice in the ice mountains that i &apos;m photographing is very young -- a few thousand years old .
and some of the ice is more than 100,000 years ago .
the last pictures that i &apos;d like to show you , is an iceberg that i photographed in keomnsuatsiak in greenland .
very rare , you &apos;re going to be extinct , a rolling ice mountain . . .
here &apos;s what it looks like
on the left there , you see a little boat .
that &apos;s about five meters long . .
please watch the shape of the iceberg and where it &apos;s in the water line . . . . .
you can see here , it starts to roll , and the boat is moving on the other side , the guy is there . the guy
this it is &apos;s the about average 120 size feet of from a the greenwater house
, ice or mountain 40 . feet . . . . .
and this video is real time .
and just so , showing you the ice row a different side of his personality . .
thank you .
my life is really exceptional by the work of some amazing projects . . . . .
but the coolest thing i &apos;ve ever worked on , it was this
his name is fast . . his
mt was one of the leading graffiti artists that &apos; 80s did . .
then , one day , he came back from running , and he said , &quot; dad , my legs crbaping .
and mt that is was fully the paralyoutzed
break by of paralythat zed . .
he can only use his eyes . .
i was standing there . .
so i have a company , the design and animation , is inevitable is inevitable as a complex part of what we admire in the art world and look at it
so we decided to go and do tony -- and to support his thing . . . .
and i met with his father and his brother and said , &quot; we &apos;ll give you this money . .
what are you going to do with this ? &quot;
and his brother said , &quot; i just want to talk again to tony . . .
i just want to leave you again with him and i said , &quot; wait a minute that &apos;s not -- i &apos;ve seen stephen hawking watching -- can &apos;t all of you guys have all these devices involved ? &quot; ? &quot; ?
and he said , &quot; no , just if you &apos;re hearing the market , and you &apos;ve got a remarkable insurance , you can actually do it . insurance
people are not available to these devices . &quot; . &quot;
and i said , &quot; how do you communicate ? &quot; communicating now
anybody saw the movie &quot; butterfly and dive glove ? &quot; ?
so they communicate -- they walk along -- they walk along .
i was like , &quot; very archaic , how can that be ? &quot;
so i came up with the need to just take a check and instead i got a check out , and i got a check that i had not really recompromised him .
i was taking a place to go to the place to his brother and his father -- with the words , &quot; okay , my proposal is so that he &apos;s going to get this machine , and we &apos;ll find a way to make his art . &quot; . . . .
because it &apos;s a farming , somebody who &apos;s going to take this room , not communicate . &quot; . &quot; farm . &quot;
so i was talking to a couple of months later at a conference
i met these guys from grance , graffiti &apos;s research lab , and they have a technology that lets them project a light on any surface , and then to put a laser pointer that is just registered to the negative area . .
so they &apos;re pulling around and doing the work installations like
they say all things that are being put up up there are to follow a life cycle
it starts with the sex members , then the pine rules , after the bush of the bush , and the last , actually , is the art .
but there was always a life cycle in their presentations .
so i went home and ate with my wife , and i was telling her of all , and we thought , &quot; well , well , wait a laser , &quot; well , then , wait this technology , that you can use your eyes to control things , we should figure out a way to get it to be able to deliver a laser laser , so he can be a kind of great thing
that &apos;s the beginning of the journey
and about two years later , about a year later , after a lot of organization and a lot of things , we &apos;ve achieved a few things . . .
first , we have the insurance that the doors have chosen in , and actually have a device that they can communicate for -- stephen hawking machine . .
this was incredible . .
and he &apos;s really , really funny -- i call it yoda because you talk to him , or he &apos;s going to have an email , and you &apos;re thinking , &quot; i &apos;m so uncomfortable , this guy is incredible . &quot; . &quot; ,
and also , we flew seven commers from all over the world -- literally from all the corners of the world -- to us , back to
my wife , my children and i are in the garage , and these hackers and programmers and conspiracy and the conspiracy of our house , and we &apos;ve
many of our friends thought we were beautiful dumb to do this , and we &apos;d be throwing back all the images to the walls , and the graffiti would be just weighted
but for about two weeks , we &apos;ve programmed , we went to the beach in venice , my kids were educated , my dog was also , and we created this .
it &apos;s called eyewriter , and you can see the description . .
this is a cheap sunglasses that we bought at the beach of venice , and some copper wire , and some of the things that are coming from the construction market and the electronics
we took a ps3 camera , put it apart , put it on a dude , and now we put it on a dude , and now we have a device that &apos;s freely available -- you can build it yourself , we make the code available to
so we created a device that &apos;s completely free of limitations . .
no insurance can make a source . . . .
no hospital . . . . .
now everyone paralyzed now with his eyes or draw or draw . . . .
thank you .
thank you very much , that was incredible . . .
so at the end of two weeks , we went back in tempt room . .
i love this picture , because it &apos;s someone &apos;s room , and that &apos;s his room .
now there &apos;s all this rubble from the great revelation . a great revelation .
and over a year of planning , two weeks of programming , nodelearties and deeps were , after the first time , he was going to be after seven years . after
and this is an amazing picture , because this is his life support system , and he &apos;s looking at his life support system .
we have expanded his bed so that it can see outside
we put a projector against a wall of the park against the hospital . a hospital . .
and he was dreaming again for the first time , in the edges of his family and friends -- and you can only imagine what a feeling that was on the par@@
and so , funny enough we had to break into the parking lot , so we felt at the best part of the claim scene . . . .
and he was in the end of the day , he was going to give us an email with the content : &quot; for the first time in seven years , i &apos;ve spewn .
i feel like i was pouring underwater and finally got to the bottom , and i &apos;d come down and drawn my head to breathe
isn &apos;t that amazing ? ?
this is something like our fighting struggle . .
that keeps us and always progressing and evolving .
and we need to be improving a lot of time . .
it &apos;s an amazing device , but it &apos;s the magic of the magic board . . .
and someone who has a such artistic potential deserves so much more . .
so we &apos;re in finding out how to make it better and more and more . . . .
since that time , we &apos;ve received all sorts of appreciation . .
we won some prizes . . .
remember , it &apos;s free , none of us deserves it . . .
it &apos;s all made out of our own pockets .
so the exposures were , &quot; oh , that &apos;s fantastic . &quot;
armstrong twitter rounded over us , and then in december , the time-magazine has been ordered us , as one of the 50 best inventions , which was really
and the coolest thing about this -- and this includes the whole circle -- that there was this april , the murdered moca in the inner city of los angeles , is called a show called the &quot; kind of the streets . &quot; . . . .
and there &apos;s probably going to be the toughest representatives of the street scene , and the message is that banks , shepard fairey , cav -- all these guys will be there . .
mt is going to be part of the show , which is pretty freeful .
so basically , if you look a little bit , you can do that , that &apos;s impossible , it makes
everything in this room was impossible -- this stage , this computer , this microphone , the eyewriter -- it was impossible at some point .
make it possible -- all of you here .
i &apos;m not a programmer , and i &apos;ve never had anything to do with regenerating technology , but i just did something and i &apos;ve given some amazing people to try and put something
and that question should everybody take you all on every single day where you &apos;re going to get something you &apos;re going to get done , and if not now , when when then when then when and if i didn &apos;t , who
thank you . .
so , i write for children , and i &apos;m probably america &apos;s most respected child &apos;s notor . . . . .
and i always say to the people i always don &apos;t want to get to that . .
you can have me as a farmer , or in leather , but nobody ever has to have any farmers . .
today i want to tell you about circles and revelations . .
well , a thing that is usually something that is common is something you find because you &apos;ve actually landed
you go around the block , and it &apos;s an open revelation . . .
this is a picture of a circle .
one of my friends did it -- richard bollingns .
it &apos;s the kind of complicated circle that i want to tell you about today .
my circle began in the &apos; 60s at the high school in the &apos; 60s , ohio , where i was a shal@@
i was the one who was beaten every week at the juvenoid green and blue , until a teacher saved my life
she saved my life by using me the toilet in the teacher room . . . . .
she was secretary .
she did it for three years .
and i had to get away from the city .
i had a thumb , i had 18 dollars , and i went to san francisco in california -- i found a lover -- and then in the &apos; 80s , i found it really important to record a work in aids
and i got a call about three or four years ago in the middle of the night , a call from this teacher , woman , who said , &quot; i &apos;ve got to see you .
i &apos;m a sad thing that we never learned to know each other as adults . .
please and , i please should come say to that oi hihave o a , design please of come design together , with and
the i man want that you i to know join they me &apos;ve . found &quot; in the . mean&quot; time . .
so the next day we were in cleveland . next
we watched her , we were laughing , we crying , and we knew that she needed to be in a hospice . .
we found one for them , we brought them down , and we got them to take eight , and we sat on their family , because it
it was something we knew . . .
and just as the woman who wanted to know me as adults , to meet me , she turned into a box of shock and turned into my hands . .
what happened was that the circle had closed , it was a circle -- and the revelation that i talked about was this . revel@@
revelation is a part of life . . .
she saved my life , and my partner and i were saving her .
and , you know , this part of life needs everything that needs the rest of life .
he needs truth and beauty , and i &apos;m so glad that this was written here today . .
it needs the same -- he would take , love and pleasure , and it &apos;s in us to give us the things .
thank you .
imagine a big explosion while they climb up to 1,000 feet .
imagine an airplane full of smoke .
imagine a motor plant that &apos;s a clloodtack , lg , bladder , blap , blap ,
that sounds frightening
well , i had a unique place that day ; i was sitting on 1d .
i was the only one who could speak with the aircraft . .
so i looked at her right the same way , and they said , &quot; no problem , we &apos;ve got some birds .
the pilot was being used , and we were not so far away . .
you could see manhattan .
two minutes later , three things came together . . .
the pilot was making the machine out after the hudson river .
that it &apos;s swinot tusually ches rou@@
off te the . engine . .
so , imagine a soundly airplane . .
and then he said three words -- the best words i &apos;ve ever heard . . .
he says , &quot; perform up for the prou@@
i didn &apos;t have to talk to the boards . . .
i i could &apos;m see going it to in share their three eyes things , that there
i was &apos;ve sclearned ared that that day was about going me to . end
i learned that in a moment everything is different . .
we have this gas plan , we have these things that we want to do in our lives , and i thought of all the people i wanted to make a hand , and i didn &apos;t do it , all the fences that i wanted to do , all the experiences i wanted to do ,
and i later thought of it , i noticed a phrase that says , &quot; i collect bad wine . &quot; . .
because if the wine is so far and the person is there , then i open it .
i never want to make a difference in life . .
and that urgency , that really changed my life . . .
the second thing i learned that day -- and that was when we were missing george washington bridge , pretty much about hair fat -- i thought , man , there &apos;s one thing that i really want advance .
i had a good life . .
in my own humanity , and with my mistakes , i then blew up to be better in
but i &apos;ve given my ego space too . . . .
and i took time that i wasted meaningless things , with people who mean something . stuff . .
and i thought about the relationship with my wife , to friends . men . .
and after that , i decided to make negative energy from my life . to try to get negative energy out
it &apos;s not perfect , but it &apos;s much better . .
i couldn &apos;t tell my wife two years to my wife . .
it feels great .
i &apos;m not trying anymore , right ; i &apos;m making myself happy .
the third thing i learned -- and i was -- while the internal clock , &quot; 15 , 14 , 13 , ... &quot;
you can see the water coming .
i said , &quot; please move to the air . &quot;
i don &apos;t want this thing to break in 20 parts , as you know it from documentaries .
as we fall down , i had this sense of being heard , man is not terrifying . .
almost that , we &apos;re getting ourselves preparing for a lifetime . .
but it was very sad .
i didn &apos;t want to go . i love my life .
and that sadness really started in a thought , which is that i just want one thing to do .
i just wished to see my children up . .
about a month after a month , i went to my daughter &apos;s first grade , and i went to see a college line , not
not yet .
and i &apos;m going to celebrate , like a little child . . a little
and in the world , everything was making a sense of me .
i then realized that by interfering with each other , it &apos;s only about being a great father . a great father . .
more than anything , everything else is my single goal in life , a good father . . .
i was struck by the miracle that day , not to die . that
i got another present , and i got to see the future , and come back and different life . . .
my call to all of you who are flying today is : do you please -- but do you think , and how would you change ? and how would you change ?
what would you do to you , because you think you &apos;re forever there ? ? there ? there
how would you change your relationships and the negative energy in it ?
and more than anything else , they are the best parents you can possibly be ?
thank you .
the idea behind the strexnet computer worm is pretty simple . .
we don &apos;t want iran to build the bomb .
the most important thing there is to develop nuclear weapons is the urinity facility in natance .
the gray boxes that you see here are real-time control systems . .
if we &apos;re working with the systems that are going to control the systems and the numbers and the valves , we actually can do that a lot of problems with the cent@@
this gray boxes don &apos;t run with windows ; they &apos;re based on a completely different technology
but if we manage to get a more effective window-virus virus , being being used by a warning engineer to configure that gray box , then we are in business . .
and this is the planning behind stage . stage .
so we start with a windows drat . .
the data data is transferred to the gray box , damaged the centrifuge , and iranian environmental services , enabled mission . exposed
it &apos;s a piece of gaming ,
i want to tell you how we have figured out that .
when we started studying our research , six months ago , was completely unknown what the sense of the exercise and purpose was . .
the only thing we knew was very , very complicated , what goes on the windows of the windows , the threat , it made by a number of ceroid de@@
and it seemed to be something that we have with these gray boxes , this real-time control of control
this was what we got , and we started a lab , project in which we infected our environment with stuxnet , and examined this constru@@
and then something funny happened . .
stuxnet was a laboratory rat who liked our cheese -- sniff slight , but didn &apos;t want to eat it . .
it didn &apos;t make sense in my mind
and after we had experimented with various cubs , i realized that this is a goal attack . attack . a goal .
it &apos;s totally focused on a particular
the dropters , the drugder strips along on the gray box when a special configuration was discovered . even , when the modeling , the specific program , which is to be able to infect
and if you don &apos;t , i do anything .
so , really , the occasion , really , and we started working with it , almost around the clock , because i thought , well , we don &apos;t know what the goal was
it could be , say , a us-american power plant or a chemical plant in germany . . .
so we should soon figure out what the target is . .
so , more and more decompiculted , we found the code code and we found that it &apos;s built in two digital lengcles -- a smaller and bigger one
and we also noticed that they were very professional , by people who had apparently all available the information information .
she knew all the bits and bytes that she had to attack .
they probably knew the shooting size of the machine services .
so they knew everything .
and if you &apos;ve got to get involved , the dropters of high quanet is complex and high-tech , let me tell you , the data data is for itself
it &apos;s much more sophisticated than anything we &apos;ve ever seen .
and here you can see a clip of this angror code .
we &apos;re talking about -- about 15,000 lines of code . .
looks very much like the old-fashioned assembly language
and i want to tell you how we were able to be smart from this code . .
so what we first went to was looking for , was systemfunctional records , because we know what these things
and then we looked for designers and data structures , trying to connect this with the real world , with potential targets in the real world . .
so we needed theories about these goals that we could disprove or dispen@@
and to map these theories , we call ourselves remembering that it &apos;s definitely about highly sabotage , it has to be a very high-scale goal and very likely it &apos;s in iran because most infections have been blogented . in iran
now , in this area there is not a thousand targets .
it &apos;s essentially the bucks of nuclear power and targeting equipment in natance . . . .
so i said to my assistant , &quot; bring me a list of all the veterin for cenfuels and power plants from our astroperor
and i called her white and tap her knowledge to compare her expertise what we found in the code and in the data . .
and that worked very well .
so the , rowe tor were is able this to moving bring part the inside little the digital centlri@@
umfub ge with , the these roblack me object controllthat ing you . see . .
and if you manipulate the speed of this rose , you actually can &apos;t snuck the rotor and eventually explode , the centrifuge , and eventually
and what we found was that the goal of the attack was , it was slowly and unrapped -- obviously to allow for warfare engineers to be desperable , so that they wouldn &apos;t be able to get behind .
the great digital trug -- we got a glimpse by looking at very precisely data and data structures .
so , for example , the number 164 spazes , it &apos;s very , very different from this code , you
i started working with scientific literature , about how this centrifuge was built in jership , and found that they are structured in what they call cascules , and each cascade contains 164 centrifu@@
so this made sense , it made sense . .
and it got better . .
this centrifuge in iran has been divided in 15 called the ranges . . .
and guess what we found in the code ? ?
a nearly identical structure .
so again , this fit really well . .
and this gave us a great promise of what we were looking for .
now , you don &apos;t get me wrong , that wasn &apos;t just that .
these results were done by a couple of weeks of hardness work . .
and often we ran into a snbal , and we had to re@@
but what we found was that both of the digital leftheads in reality were actually on one , and the same goal was driving , but made out
the little jumpenter takes over a cascade , and it turns out the rotors and slows down and the great ledge is at six kabacco tacks and manipulates . interacting
so , in large , and we &apos;re very confident that we actually have determined what the goal is
it &apos;s natanane , and it &apos;s just self-con@@
so we don &apos;t have to worry that other goals of stuxnet might be met . .
here &apos;s something really cool that we discovered -- made me really upset the socks .
down here , the gray box , and at the top of it , you see the centrifu@@
now , what this thing does is it travels the under-appreciated values -- like printing sensors and vibrational sensors -- and it provosts the legitimate code that still keeps the attack , and it &apos;s going to be a wrong feature on
and in fact , that fake data of stuxnet is already done before . . . . .
so it &apos;s just like in hollywood movies , where during the hunting housing camera , where the forveillance camera is fed with
that &apos;s cool , right ? ?
now , obviously , the idea here is not just the machine operators in control room .
in fact , it &apos;s much more dangerous and aggressive
the idea is to overlist a digital security system .
we need digital security systems where there &apos;s a human machine company cannot react fast enough
so in a power station , for example , if the great steam turbine gets too quickly , you have to open up disruption of a milliseconds . .
of course , this cannot be done by a human machine leader .
so this is what we need digital security systems .
and when they are threatened , they can actually happen really bad things
the power plant can explode .
and it &apos;s not the machine leaders , the security system , it will notice
this is frightening
but it gets worse .
and what i &apos;m saying now is very important . . .
think about it . this is an actual attack .
it so has , nothing he to would do work specifically for with example cent, riin fua ge power , station with , uror
ania um car charfactory ming . . . . . . . . . . .
it &apos;s generic .
and you don &apos;t have to -- as the attacker , you don &apos;t have to take the data on a usb key , as we saw at stuxnet . . .
you could use ordinary wormm technology to spread . .
you just have to get it as far as
and if you do that , then you get a cycular mass of mass destruction . . .
that &apos;s the consequence that we have to ask ourselves .
so unfortunately , the largest number of goals are not in the middle east . . . .
they &apos;re in the united states , in europe and japan .
so all these green areas , these are the most target environments . . .
we need to ask the consequences , and we &apos;re better at preferred to prepare
thank you .
i have a question . .
ralph , it was reported very much about people saying that mosses is the main organization behind the world . . .
is that your mind ? ?
okay , you really want to know ? ?
yeah . okay .
the mossamer , i think , is involved , but the driving force is not israel . .
so the driving force behind it is the cyberpower . power .
there &apos;s only one and the united states -- fortunately , luck . .
because the problem is , our problem would be even more
thank you for hunting us a lie in a legal fear . thank you . . . .
i &apos;ve spent the last couple of years putting myself into situations that are actually sort of dangerous , and at the same time as dangerous
i went to jail -- difficult .
i i &apos;ve filbeen med working in in war a categcoal
ory mine -- -- difficult dangerous and . dangerous . .
and i spent 30 days being spent , not eating this -- walking at the beginning , a little bit difficult at the end . dangerous at
in fact , i &apos;ve been campaigning the most of my career for most of the time , and it &apos;s just given all of that to try to examine social decline that &apos;s interesting and interesting , and hopefully in some ways , what you can understand for the audience and making it accessible to the audience . . .
so when i knew i &apos;d come here to look at a tedtalk the world of brands and sponsoring , i knew i was going to do something a little different . . . .
some of you may have heard of this , i went out on ebay a couple of weeks ago . . . .
i sent a few facebook messages , some twitter stories , and i gave people the opportunity to get namities right to my tedtalk 2011 . in
i really , some happy people and corporations , nonprofit , nonprofit , got the opportunity to do it -- because i &apos;m sure chris anderson will never leave the again -- to buy namials from the talk that you &apos;re seeing at that time not providing a lot of content , not many clues of what the subject was about . . a lot of the clue of what was going on . . a lot of the way that it was
so what you got was this : your name represented here : my tedtalk , which you have no idea of what the subject will be , and which you &apos;ll just fly for your own contribution to your ears , particularly if i were to love their company for their participation du@@
but it &apos;s a very good medifact . . .
you know how many people are watching this tedtalks ?
a lot . .
this is just the workplace . . . .
so , despite all this warning , i knew anybody would buy the name right . .
now , if you had asked me this one year ago , i wouldn &apos;t have been able to tell you that this is a very certainty
but in the new project i &apos;m working on , my new film , study the world of marketing , the advertising . .
as i said , i &apos;ve been giving myself some pretty awful situations over the years , but nothing helped me not to put any flavor on anything that was so difficult and so dangerous as with these guys . in a room . .
you know , i had the idea of a movie .
what i want to do is a film about planting cart , marketing and advertising , is funding by the whole film by producing a marketing , marketing and advertising . .
and the film is called &quot; the zudwige ever . &quot;
so what &apos;s happening in &quot; the divergence ever created , is that everything from above to bottom , from the beginning to , &quot; with the title sponsor that you &apos;ll see in the movie , that &apos;s the brand x. , which you &apos;ll see in the movie ,
now this brand , the quality compound , the staggered stadium ,
these people are being connected to eternity , forever , forever . .
and so the film is going to study all this idea -- is what ? in eye-up , forever ?
i &apos;m a redundant person .
that was more emphasis . .
it was &quot; in eternity , forever . &quot; forever .
but we &apos;re not just going to have the brand of the seeds as the cover sponsor , but we &apos;re certainly going to make sure that we &apos;re going to sell any possible
so maybe we &apos;re selling a shoe , and he &apos;s going to be the greatest shoe you
the greatest car you have ever , from &quot; the divers ever provided , &quot; the greatest drink that you &apos;ve ever had , &quot; the varied ever , &quot; the &quot; the vari@@
so the idea is to show that marks are part of life , is actually to get them to fund the movie ? , you know ,
and we actually show all the process of what it &apos;s working .
the goal of the whole movie is transparency .
you &apos;ll see the whole thing in the movie by statements . .
so this is the whole concept , the whole film , from the beginning .
and i &apos;d be happy if cecele would help make this happen
you know , it &apos;s funny because when i heard it , it &apos;s the ultimate respect for the audience . .
but i don &apos;t know how reception people will be . . . .
have you a perspective -- i don &apos;t want to use &quot; point &quot; because that has a negative konp -- but do you know how that &apos;s going to be going ? that way
how much money is it to be able to figure that
1.5 million .
i think it &apos;s hard to hit them , but i think it &apos;s worth true to get some really familiar brands . . . . . .
who knows if the movie comes out , we might see a vulnout of bacteria . . a vollidity
what do you think the answer is ? ? that
the answer will most likely be no . .
but is it a difficult thing about the movie or a difficult thing ? for me ?
jk : both .
so , don &apos;t mean that optimistic
so , my lord , can you help me ? i need help
i can help . .
okay fantastic . .
. .
we need to think about what markers are .
yeah .
when you look at the people you have to do with
there are some places that we can turn to .
so think about the camera .
i thought , &quot; imagine the camera , &quot; if you wanted to have a back-to-face conversation . .
it turns out , in fact , it meant , &quot; we don &apos;t want to have your
and just so disappeared all these companies , one after one . . .
no one wanted to do something about the movie . .
i was amazed .
they didn &apos;t want to do absolutely with the project .
and i was confused , because i thought the whole concept , the idea of advertising , is to present your product as many people as possible , to make it as many people as possible . as possible . as we can
especially in the world today , at this intersection of new and old media and the dissection media landscape -- it &apos;s not the idea of being in this new exciting , crossing scale that &apos;s being led to the masses that will be this message .
no , that was what i thought .
but look , the problem was that my idea had a fatal mistake , and that was what was happening . .
actually , no , that was not the mistakes at all .
it wasn &apos;t a problem at all . .
that would have been okay .
but what this picture is , is a problem .
you see , if you put it in the google search , this is -- this is one of the first images that shows . one of the
i really like your way , sergey brin . . .
and that was the problem : transparency -- free of deception and shale , just to detect and to see , immediately , to the point , to the characterized of visible senses and access to information , particularly what business is addressing -- the last line is probably the
you know , we &apos;re listening to a whole lot of transparency .
our politicians say it to tell us our president says , even our ceos tell it .
but if it comes to being implemented , something is changing . changes .
but why ? well , transparency is scary -- like this curious bear , who &apos;s still going to melt .
it &apos;s unpredictable -- like this curious street street . .
and it &apos;s also very risky .
what else is risky ?
a whole bowl of cool cop food .
that &apos;s very risky .
so when i started talking to the companies and tell them that we wanted to tell the story , they said , &quot; no , we want you to tell a story .
we want you to tell a story , but we just want you to tell our story . &quot;
you see , when i was a kid and my father caught me lying -- and he &apos;s sitting there looking at me , and looking at this , he &apos;d say , &quot; my son , there &apos;s some story in there in all history . .
there &apos;s your version , there &apos;s my version , and there &apos;s a real version . &quot;
so you see , with this film , we wanted to tell the true version .
but there &apos;s only one company willing to help us -- and just only , because i &apos;ve been born with john bond and richard kirshan tree -- i realized i had to do it alone , i had to avoid the middle of the middle of the middle and go to the companies . . . my team . .
so what you suddenly began to understand -- or what i began to realize -- was that , when you start speaking with these companies , the idea of how you get brand brand , is a profound problem .
i have friends doing the big , giant hollywood films , and i have friends who make little big degrees of accident like i do .
and my friends , the big , giant hollywood films make out that the reason your films are so successful , are on the brands that they have . on
and then my friends , say , little big little bit movies , &quot; well , how are we going to compete with these big , giant hollywood films ?
and the film is called &quot; the range ever provided . &quot;
so , how do we get into the movie in the movie
every time i go out and i go on the medical director , and whenever i open the medical director , you &apos;ll be able to see a ban
and every time i interview somebody , i can say , &quot; are you fresh enough to interview this interview ? ?
are they ? you see a little nervous . a
i want to help you calm up .
so you might want to put a little bit of this on front
and then we put one of these great dunes . .
either &quot; flare fusion , &quot; or a paradise winds , they &apos;re going to have the choice . .
we &apos;re being equipped by both men and for women -- solid , roll-on , or a stick , whatever . .
that &apos;s the shortest . .
now i can answer all of your questions and give them a commodity cup .
we &apos;re a smaller brand .
as you talked about the smaller movies , as a very challenging , a challenging . .
so we don &apos;t have a budget like other brands . .
so to do these things -- you know , people from ban -- that &apos;s kind of why we &apos;re interested in this .
what words would you describe ? ? with them .
ban is blank .
that &apos;s a great question .
so , more technology .
technology is not the way that you might describe something that somebody is doing under the axes .
we talk about cohn , fresh .
i think , &quot; wow &quot; is a great word that these category really can make it a positive part , but opposed to &quot; fighting and hustit .
it keeps you fresh .
how can we keep more fresh -- better fresh , more fresh , more fresh , three fresh fresh . . .
these and things this have is a a more one-positive on-@@
effect one . companies . . . .
what about me ? what about the printing styp@@
i have to talk to the man in the street who are like me , otto &apos;s normal consumers . .
i want to tell you about my brand .
how would you describe your brand ? ?
so , my brand ?
i don &apos;t know .
i really like to do nice clothing .
&apos;80s revival on skate points , except on the day of wayday .
all right , what is the brand rry ?
unique .
i think the genre i have is arguing &quot; dark glamour . &quot; .
i like a lot of black colors , lots of gray silence and such a stuff .
but usually i have a accessories of sound like sunglasses , or a jewelry , and such a stuff . .
so the if brand dan i was &apos;m a , brand i , would he say would , be is likely ,
to i be would a say classi, c com, pulyou sive know fly , . a classi.
woman # 2 : pork hippie , part of the brooklyn girl -- i don &apos;t know
i &apos;m the museum of the museum
i sell schespers all across the country , worldwide . . .
so i think that &apos;s my brand .
this is my brand in my little , sticky industry .
man man 4 5 : : my brand brand alis cofe@@
hol deaddix ct , . because i hiwas di@@
does this happen ?
lawyer : i &apos;m a lawyer
i &apos;m a tom .
well , we can &apos;t be all the toms , but i often look at the intersection of the gloat of bad glamour and har@@
and what &apos;s found is i needed a experts . .
i needed someone who could get me to my head , somebody who would really help me understand what they call the &quot; brand personality . &quot;
and so i found a company called olson zolman in pittsburg .
they have helped companies like ninth , feety , germark to discover these braspersonalities
if you could do it for the things , it could help me . . .
they brought their pictures , yes ?
so i did . the first painting is a picture of my family .
just tell me a little bit about what it &apos;s related to your thoughts and feelings about yourself . .
these are the people that shape my worldview . . .
tell me about this world .
md : so , this world ? i think the own world is the world in which we live -- how people around you , the friends , the family , the way you live your life , the work
all of these things are coming and start from a place , and for me , they come from a place , and they start with my family in west virg@@
what &apos;s next about you want to talk about . .
the next one . this was the most beautiful day of my
what context is that way to the mind and feelings about them ? ?
it &apos;s like i want to be . . .
i like things that are different .
i like things that are queodle . i like some strange
tell me about the &quot; why &quot; phase &quot; -- what does it bring you ?
what is the machete ? what on puppea is now ?
why is it important to start ? what is it that represents the red ?
tell me a little bit about this part .
a little bit more about you , that you are not you .
what else metamorphoses have you running through ? that ?
... that doesn &apos;t have to be scared . what kind of rolleraster are you ?
eeeeee ! no , thank you .
thank you for the patience .
yeah . all right . all
yeah , i don &apos;t know what &apos;s going to be made . .
there were lots of crazy things going on . . .
the first thing i saw was this idea that her brand personality ramtime was two separate , but it has partly over the pages -- the murgan spurlock brand is an eight-level /
the supplements are very good . . .
and i think there &apos;s almost a contradiction with that .
and i think some companies are just focused on a strength , rather than both . on the side . . .
a lot of companies tend to -- and this is the human nature -- to avoid things where they &apos;re not sure , they &apos;re going to avoid fear , and they actually turn these elements , and they actually turn them into something positive , and that &apos;s a splendment train .
what other brands do ? ?
the first one is a classic , apple . .
and you can see here , target , wii , mini of mini cooper and jetblue . . .
well , there &apos;s clothing faced with tibretary and mind-sized brands , these things that come and go , but a tension , mindly brand is a
an eight-minded , negotiated brand . how is your brand ?
if somebody asked you to describe your brand identity , your brand identity , how would it be ? ?
you put it up to an up-attribute ? are they something the blood makes ?
or are you more like a down-breathing ?
are you something that is a little bit quiet , sample , conservative ?
up-attributes are things that are playfulful , fresh like the fresh prince , tilful , adventurous , and lovely like geakol flynn , turn up and coding , prosperous , magically and mystical like gandalf . . &amp; lt ;
or are are they you eight more minutes like and a mon@@
downda-ws brealike thing $ ? 7 ?
are you abated by traditional , care , cartiful , compassionate , compassionate , and oprah
are they reliable , stable , earn , safe , fatal , glory , thoughtful , and how the dalai lama , or yoda
and over the course of the movie , we had over 500 companies , and down up , and we were down to cars , and they said no , because they didn &apos;t want to
and they were all trying to do with this film , because they didn &apos;t have control , they have no control over the product . .
but will 17 mardeyans who were willing to get this control to get to this control that was trying to do so with someone who &apos;s trying to do so mindy-and playfulness as i did , and eventually empowering the ability to tell us that we don &apos;t normally have to tell -- stories that would never help
it empowered us to tell the story of the neuromarketing , as we tell the story in this film , that we &apos;re using mri today to hit the pleasure centers of the brain , both for commercials as well as as movies . .
we went to sao paulo , where the export advertisements was being
in the entire city , there &apos;s no air on a stop , no poster , no flyer , nothing . . . . . .
and we went in school districts where companies can avert their way into sunshine schools across america . .
so the incredible thing for me is that the projects i put the most of the feedback or where i was successful , those are where i interacting directly . . . . .
and that &apos;s what these brands did .
because they went through the middle of the class , they went around the agencies , they said the agencies might not really have their interest in mind .
i &apos;m going to negotiate with the artist straight .
i &apos;m going to work with him and do something entirely different , something that makes people think that our worldview challenges us . . . . . .
and how did that look for you ? what was successful ? ?
now , that the movie had been at sundance film , and we could look at it . . .
loud , the premiere in january , and since -- and this is not even the whole thing -- there were 900 million calls from this film . , 900 million are recorded by
actually , this is just a period of two euro-and-a-half weeks .
this is just online -- no press , no television .
the film hasn &apos;t been spent . . .
it doesn &apos;t even have online . no trajectory .
it &apos;s not yet coming out in other countries . .
now , finally , the film has been launched for a very large moment . .
and that &apos;s not bad for a project where almost every commercial agency we were talking about , put your hand away , let &apos;s put
one thing i believe that i believe is that if you give up your opportunity to risk risk , that in those risks . in
i think if you keep people from it , then you get them closer to failure . . .
i think if you &apos;re training your employees , avoiding risks , you &apos;re prepared to gain a profit . . . .
i feel that at the end of the day , we have to encourage people to take risks . .
we have to encourage people to be afraid of opportunity that they may be afraid . .
after all , in the foreseelia , we should be wel@@
we should put the bear in the cage . .
they &apos;re not going to be the fear of
and so one big procedure of the big procedure we &apos;re going to
and finally , if we &apos;re welcome transparency welcome
today , over the day , we get a little bit of honesty , a little bit more
and said , with honesty and transparency , my whole talk &quot; is welcoming transparency , &quot; she presented by my good friends of emc who paid $ 7100 to the core of ebay . . . . for the
big data is transforming for organizations around the world , into large opportunities
emc presses &quot; you &apos;re welcomed transparency .
thank you . . .
now , morgan , in the name of transparency this : what happened to the $ 7,100 ?
that &apos;s a great question .
i have a check in my pocket , pointed out on the top of the ted organization , the saeu-foundation , and the cat , in high 7,100 , to fund my t.v. next year .
my name is amit .
18 months ago , i was doing something different on google , and i was thinking of making a lot of museums and art . my cheean , who &apos;s also the case , gave me a focal light .
and it took 18 months .
a lot of fun negotiations and stories , i can tell you , at 17 , i can tell you , at 17 very interesting
but i &apos;m going to focus on the performance . .
there &apos;s a lot of stories about why we &apos;ve done this .
i think my personal view is very simply explaining this slide and its access . . .
i grew up in india . .
i was a great education in this -- i didn &apos;t give it a great deal of education -- but i didn &apos;t have access to a lot of muselakes
when i was traveling , and i went to see these museums , i started learning a lot .
and as i worked for google , i tried to try and make this sense -- art more accessible -- to lead
and we then created a team , a great manherine , and we started with this .
i will probably start with the demonstration and tell you some interesting stories that happened since the start . . . . .
so you &apos;re simply going to google project.com. . .
you can look around at all these museums .
there &apos;s the upeizi , the moma , the naenant , the rijis , the van gogh . van gogh .
i even get into one of my favorite ones , the metropolitan museum of art in new york . . .
you get into two bucks -- very simple .
and you &apos;re in this museum , and you &apos;re in this
it doesn &apos;t matter where they are -- bombay , mexico , it doesn &apos;t matter . .
you go around and you &apos;re bending .
you want to orient in the museum ?
you they open are up , the they map want , to and be jump in off the with end
a of click the . ganck . . . . . .
just continued . lots of fun
sticks them .
thank you , but the best part is still . .
so i &apos;m a friend of mine to a friend of mine , named pieter breogel in the met . . . . .
i see this business figure .
when the museum gave us the picture , it will click on it .
now these this are is all one the of metathe data
images . . . . . .
those of you who really are interested in art can be clicking , and click on this way . click . . off .
this is one of the images we &apos;ve been given to , what &apos;s called the gigapix technology .
this image , for example , has about 10 billion graphics , i think . . . .
and a lot of people ask me , &quot; what do you get for 10 billion graphics ? &quot; ? that
now , this is going to show you . . . . . .
you can put it very easily and zoom
you see a little fun here . .
i love this guy ; expression is intractable .
but then you really want to go deep into it
and so i began playing around , and i realized there &apos;s something going on there .
and i thought , &quot; wait a minute that sounds interesting . &quot; .
i went up to see , and i slowly noticed that these kids were actually caking .
i did a little , talking to some people at the met , and actually found out that it was a game called squail , where a ganit can get a beel on the fastnight tuesday with a stick . .
it seems quite popular . . .
i don &apos;t know why you did it , but i learned a little bit about it
to go to that really close to the cats , you can go to the rises
just to give you a look , i zoom out , so you can see what you get . . .
here we were , and this is the painting . .
the best part is -- in one second . . .
let &apos;s quickly jump to moma , again in new york . back in new york
another favorite picture of me , star night . . . .
in the previous example , we were about finding elements . .
but what if you want to see the paintbrush ?
and what about when you want to see him like van gogh , you know , that &apos;s
you squer in . you can really go in
i &apos;m going to zoom in into one of my favorite compound this picture , until i really am in the barbs .
this is star night , probably seen before . . . . . .
now i &apos;m going to show you my favorite function . .
there this are is many really others cool , part but , i it don &apos;s &apos;t
called have consutime l. tants . . . .
each of you , everyone -- just like kingdom or poor , whether you have a great house -- doesn &apos;t play . . . . .
you can go and create your own museum -- all of these pictures you can set up your own collection
and you go in -- and i &apos;ve done this , and i &apos;ve done this , the power of zoom -- you can zoom in
that &apos;s the healing , the national valid . . . . .
you can put it with indications , you can send your friends , and you can go a conversation about what you feel when you look at that masterwork .
i think , finally , i think , is the main thing that all the wonderful things are not from google . . . .
i don &apos;t even think of the museums . . . .
i they shouldn come &apos;t from say the
that artists . . . .
and this was an experience in humility for me .
i mean , i hope that we &apos;re going to be a little bit of a digital medium of art , and they &apos;re highly
and in this case , the biggest question i asked my recently is , &quot; did you do that to replicate the experience of a museum . &quot;
the answer is no . .
it &apos;s supposed to be able to add experience .
that &apos;s what you all do . thank you
thank you .
this is a picture of your brain . your brain is divided into two layers . in
that &apos;s the left half that the logical side is , and then the right half the way to the right side . .
if we had a scale to measure the apkey every hemisphere , we could display your brain . . . .
for example , why would those who be completely logical . .
this would be someone who &apos;s totally intuitive .
now , where would you drive your brain on that scale ?
some of us might have decided to have one of those extreme , but i think , for most people in the audience , their brain looks like this -- with a high aptit , at the same time . at the same time .
it &apos;s not as if they &apos;re both exclusively or like that .
you can be logical and intuitive .
and so i look as one of the people , with most other experimental quantum nucleus physists who need a good part of logic to add together the complex ideas . .
but at the same time , we need a good proportion of the experiments to actually execute the
how do we develop these intuitions ? well , we love play with things .
so we go out and play it and then we start to start developing our intuition . and then we start to develop our intuition .
basically they do the same thing . .
so one of the intuitions that you &apos;ve developed over the years is probably to be a place at the same time .
i mean , it can be strange to think about that , that one thing at the same time is two different places , but they were not born with this idea , they &apos;ve developed
i he remember was watching a a little kid kid sitting , on not a very floor good of at a it bo,
om and . he would a constantly kid go . . a . little bit . of time .
but i &apos;m going to bet that playing with the bottom of the body &apos;s shoes taught a very valuable lesson , which is that big things not just leave you , and that you stay at a place
and this is a great conceptual model of the world , as long as you &apos;re not having any particle physicist .
it would be a terrible model for a particle physicist because they don &apos;t play with booms of soil , they &apos;re not playing with these little strange particles
and if you play with your particle , you &apos;ve got all sorts of weird things -- like how you &apos;re flying directly through the walls , or that you can be at two different places . .
and so all of these observations , they put them all on , and they called the theory of quantum mechan@@
this was the state of physics a few years ago ; it took quantum mechanics to describe the little , tiny particles . .
but it didn &apos;t take the great things that you need to describe around us .
that &apos;s not what i have to do , and maybe that &apos;s because i don &apos;t play with particles . . .
well , i sometimes play with you , but not very often .
and i &apos;ve never seen them .
i mean , nobody has ever seen a particle .
but my logical side also didn &apos;t like it . .
because if all the stuff are made of particles and all these particles are going to follow the rules of quantum mechanics , then wouldn &apos;t just follow all the
i don &apos;t see why it &apos;s not that that should be
so i &apos;d better feel very clear with all this , when we could sort of point that everyday objects are also following the rules of quantum mechanics
so a few years ago , i went on to do that . .
i created one . .
this is the first object you can see that was in the quantum mechanical superposition . .
so what we &apos;re looking at here is a tiny computer chip .
and you can see that green dot there in the middle . there .
that &apos;s the piece of metal that i &apos;m going to talk about . . .
this is a picture of the object .
i &apos;ll get it a little bit . we look at the center right here . right back here .
and here &apos;s a really large close-up of this little piece of metal . . .
so what we &apos;re looking at is a little piece of metal , it &apos;s like a springboard , and it &apos;s over the edge . . . . . .
so i did this thing in a similar way that you could put on a computer . .
i went to a clean room with new silicon slides , and i put in charge for 100 hours for all the big devices . . . .
i had to build my own machine for the last bit of time -- to get this kind of a swimming pool , and get this thing .
this thing has got the ability to be in quantum mechanical superposition , but it takes a little help to do it
look , let me give you an analogy .
you know how uncomfortable it is in a full outcome ? ? that way
i mean , if i &apos;m in the elevator alone , i do all kinds of weird things , but then other people get into and i &apos;ll stop making other people , because i don &apos;t want to be trusting them , or frankly , they miss . .
so quantum mechanics says that inflictive objects are just as much as feeling
the co-authority for discontinuable objects are not just people , but the light that seems to them and the wind that seems to them , and the heat of the space . . .
and so we knew that if we wanted to see that this piece of metal doesn &apos;t work quantum mechanically , we had to go out and throw it out of smiffen .
and we did that . . .
we turned off the lights , put it in a vacuum and clean the air , and cooled it down to almost until to the right , just alone , on the elevator , the piece of metal was free to see how everyone wanted to . free was free to
so we measured his movement . .
we found that it was really quite a bit .
so instead of it being silent there , it &apos;s just standing , vibrating it . the way it was vibrating was about this -- like a rising and trading bubble
we gave him a little shoe , we could actually get it to vibrate at the same time , and not vibrate -- something that is allowed only in quantum mechanics . .
so what i &apos;m just talking about is what &apos;s truly amazing .
what does it mean to vibrate an object at the same time , not to vibrate ? ?
let &apos;s think about the atoms . .
so the first case : all the billions of atoms that make up the piece of metal are still there and at the same time , the same atoms are moving up and down . .
just to precise times are sound like that . . .
the rest of the time are you invalizing it
that means every atom is at the same time , at the same time , which is the whole piece of metal in two different places . , in the same time
i think that &apos;s really cool .
really .
that was it worth in the clean room , because , as they remove , the massless difference between one atom and this piece of metal is about the same as the difference between the piece of metal and you . as you get to . metal and you .
so if a single atom can be at two different places , can be that piece of metal up two different places , so why can &apos;t you ? that piece of metal can
i mean , this is just what my logical side says .
so , imagine if you were in a number of places like this , how would that feel ?
how would your mind behave with your body , in the space of synv@@
there &apos;s another aspect of history . .
when we were waging up , the light turned on and looked in the box , we saw that the piece of metal was all in a piece of play . .
and so , i had to develop this new intuition that it looks like all of these objects in the outcome are actually just quateral objects that are circled in a small
you &apos;re hearing a lot of talk about how quantum mechanics says everything is connected to everything .
now , that &apos;s not exactly right .
there &apos;s more on it , it &apos;s still more .
it &apos;s like these connections , their relationships with all the things around them , literally define who they are , and that is the profound and strange of the quantum mechanics .
thank you .
i decided that in 2007 , i decided that we should be reconceptualized as we think about economic
it should be our goal that if families want to think about where they want to live and work , they have given the opportunity to choose between at least one hand , different cities that everybody in competition is facing . . .
we &apos;re far from that goal right now . . .
there are billions of people in developing countries that don &apos;t even have a single city that they would welcome to . .
but the amazing thing about cities is that they &apos;re worth so much more than they &apos;re going to build it
so we could just , in the world , very simply with dumling , maybe even hundreds
now this may sound , maybe , to you , as far as you &apos;ve never thought of new cities
just give birth to the apartment in the cities of cities
imagine that half of the people who want to live in residential houses have already been ; the other half is not yet
you could try to expand the capacity of existing homes . . . . .
but you know what they &apos;re going to put on in this apartment , in those apartments and their environment laws are required to avoid avoiding and
so it turns out that all of these continudes of all these
but you could go to a whole new place , build a completely new block , to make sure that there would be a kind of money and not recover it . . . it
so i proposed that governments create new space that offer enough space to a city and gave them a name : &quot; charter county .
i later found that , about all the time , jail and octavio have been thinking about the challenge of reform in honduras .
they knew that every year , about 75,000 honories of their country , they were going to leave their country to go out to the united states , and they wanted to know what they could do to make sure that these people could stay safe in
at this point , jail came to the octavio , &quot; what happens if we take a deceptive surface of our country -- what if we just take a message of the country -- what if we just take a message of the american embassy , what if we want to go to work and go to the area of this meseic rule of the american embassy , and if people want to go work there , and can we do it on the surface of this messages , and can they normally go to canada ? &quot;
in the summer of 2009 , honduras honuz has a profound prevention . .
and the next planners , the pepe burbo in a turn , the pepe burbo in a hustine , whose program has promised to help in the process of motion .
he in asked the ocmeantatime vi, o i to was become going his
to robtalk ust to . tedglobal . . . .
and through improving consumer , testing and through consulting , i tried to reduce this complicated concept of charter city to the key elements . . . . . .
the first point is the importance of laws , laws that determines you don &apos;t have existing habitual owners . . . . .
we give new revelations , but for the progress we need , it takes technology and laws . and it &apos;s usually laws that hold us back . .
in the fall of 2010 , a friend of guatemala showed the link to ted talk . . . .
and they again were , both he two
showed . him . .
and said , &quot; let &apos;s do that for the president of our country ! &quot;
so we met in december in the seatroom of a hotel hotel in mi@@
i &apos;ve tried to make clear the value of cities , like much more value they are than they cost . .
and i used this chart to show how valuable rohland is at a place like new york . think of that there is a square area in some cases per square meter of thousands of dollars .
but it was a pretty abstract discussion on a place when there was a break , there was octavio , &quot; paul , maybe we could consider the tedtalk . &quot; .
so the tedtalk was in very simple form , so that a charter city is a place whose first uninhabited country is , a founding contract that &apos;s going to be there and the people who are there to decide either under those rules or not . . . . .
so i was asked by the president of honduras to be asked , who said we needed to be real , that this is important , and that this is the way our country
i was asked to come up to tegucigalpa and give birth to the fourth and fifth of janu@@
so , i &apos;ve given another kind of facts with facts , which has a graph like this that has to try to indicate that if you want to create much value in a city , it &apos;s a very large city . .
this is a picture of denver , and the sketch represent the new airport , which was made in denver
in the same way , that airport has a temperature of 100
so i tried to convince the hondurans to make a new city , you have to start with an area of at least 1,000 square miles . . . . .
this is more than 250 thousand wars . . .
now , polite have all applau@@
the faces of the audience were very severe and accuracy
the head of congress came up on the stage and said , &quot; professor romer , thank you very much for the talk , but could perhaps be the tedtalk . .
i have him here on my laptop here . &quot;
so i set out , and you played it off . ted@@
and i &apos;ve come to the core of the news that a new city gives people new possibilities . .
there would be the possibility in a city that would be in honduras , instead of hundreds of miles away from the north . . . .
and a new city also graduates with new opportunities
the leaders in honduras would be dependent on the help of the local countries , they could benefit from their partner countries , they could benefit from their partner to the laws of this charter , and in the process , that everyone could trust that the charter is really perv@@
and the realization of president lobo , was that the confidence of translation i thought about as a way of getting the foreign investors to come to and build this city to build the same thing for all partisans in honduras , who have been under the years for many years , and disgusting . scared and disgu@@
we this &apos;ve is enterfrom ed this into
place an . area . .
it sums a thousand square miles . .
and shortly afterwards , on january 19th , they were in congress &apos;s congress &apos;s change to have a comprehensive marketplace that &apos;s commonly compatible for specific areas .
in a country that has just surveyed a massive crisis , in congress that was elected by congress at 124 to a voice . a voice . . a voice
all parties , all the fractions of society , supported this .
to be part of the constitution , it has to be approved by congress . .
on february 17th , it was approved for a voice for 114 . portra@@
immediately , according to that election , between the 21st and the 24th , a tape about 30 / 11 people who were most interested in the two places of the world who were most interested in the business of the city
one place is south korea .
this is a very large new city city , built in south korea , built wordeon -- big than the urban city .
all they can see in this picture was built within four years after it took the approval of approval .
the other place that was very interested in urban construction is singapore .
it so has if already you built think two of cities it in , china it ,
&apos;s and where the we third are is today in . preparation . .
you already have a site site , and you already mention that area for second city . .
it &apos;s already being done on a legal system that management people are allowed to participate , and it &apos;s also being worked on an ex@@
a country has already offered its prior court court to be in court for the disinflectory of the local court system .
it &apos;s also a city designer and construction workers . . .
they even bring funding to the fact . .
one of the things that you know has been tied to have been tied to have been taken
there are many places that like to be tuned in america , especially in a place with a free trade zone , and there are lots of people who would like to live there . . .
there are 700 million people in the world who indicate that they want to live permanently on another place . .
a million people a year of latin america and migrant to the united states . .
many of you are fathers who are forced to restore their families to be done -- sometimes it &apos;s a single mothers who have to make enough money to make their food and clothing .
unfortunately , sometimes sometimes even kids who are trying to find their parents back to each other they have seen in some cases for over a decade . for a decade .
so what is it for an idea to think about honduras a whole new city ? ? ?
or even dumb of these cities , or are there staggered around the world ?
so what is it for an idea to insist that every family has a choice between several cities that are facing competent to new citizens ? ? competitors
that &apos;s an idea worth spreading .
so my friends from honduras asked me to say , thank you ted .
do do you you know know how how many many choices choices they they
make make in in a a typical typical day week ? ?
i &apos;ve been polled a poll with over 2,000 american people , and the average number of decisions that are doing so , a typical american on one day
and also , recently , a study with ceos did a study with ceos , which is the ceos .
and these scientists have just documented the various topics with these ceo habits , and how much time they spent making decisions that related to the subjects . .
and what they found is that the average ceo was employed by 139 jobs a week .
and fifof ty course percent , of each their of decisions the were themade mes
within , nine of minutes course or , less has . been many . ,
only for about 12 percent of their decisions they used an hour or more of their time .
think about your own decisions .
do you know how many choices you &apos;re going to meet in the nine minutes are in the order of category
how good , do you think they &apos;re making decisions ? ? it
today i want to talk about one of the biggest decision-making problems of modern time , the decision overtruste-over-aid problem
i want to talk about the problem and about some of the solutions
now , if i &apos;m talking about this problem , i &apos;m going to ask you some questions , and i want to know your answers . .
if i ask you a question , raise it , because i &apos;m blind , only the hand when you want to burn some calories .
otherwise , if i ask you a question , if i ask you a question , and you answer your answer , well , my first question for this is : are you ready to hear about decision-@@
thank you .
when i was an graduate student at stanford , i went to this very , very , very exceptional workplace ; at least at the time , it was really exclusive . at
it was a shop that was dragger .
this business , it was almost like a pleasure cake . . .
they had 250 different types of mustard and fag and over 500 different kinds of fruit and vegetables and more than two dozen different ways of water -- and this was at a time when we actually had drunk water water . . fucking
i loved it to go to this business ; but i &apos;ve been wondering , well , how come you never buy something ? ?
here is the olive oil gang . .
they had about 75 different olive oil , including the ones that were ending , who came from a thousand year-old olive trees . . old
so i decided one day to go to the filially-october , and i asked the layers , &quot; does this model mean that you really provide the people all the way
and he pointed out on the bush charges of tourists who came every day and used to fit their cameras .
so we decided to do an experiment , and we chose marmelate for our experiment
here &apos;s her marching . a marg@@
they had 348 different kinds of marital .
we &apos;ve put a little infirm right on the entry of the business . .
we put in six different tastes on marbrin or 24 different flavors of tuning , and we looked at two things : one , what if i could stay more people and try and try marmel-style ? ?
more people are stayed when there were 24 percent , about 60 percent when it were six , about 40 percent .
and after that , we looked at what case the people were buying a glass of a glass of animals . .
now we saw the reverse effect .
from the people who stayed when there were 24 , only three percent bought a glass of a tune . .
from the people who stayed , when there were six , now we saw that 30 percent of you actually bought a glass of a melting .
well , if you do math , people bought six times more of a tune , who had six to give for revenue when they had 24 to election . . .
now to decide , not buying a glass of glass is probably good for you -- at least it &apos;s good for our tape -- but it turns out that decision-over-over-over-over-generating problems are actually influenced by very contest
we don &apos;t choose to decide , even if it comes against our own best interests .
so , the theme of the day : financial savings . .
i &apos;m going to show you now a study that i did with gur huberman , who kame kamberer , who i did , and i did , in fact , in the decisions that we have to make decisions for the plans for rr , almost a million
and what we &apos;ve looked at was whether the number of fondman services that were possible to do a retirement plan that &apos;s going to impact the likelihood of whether more for tomorrow is saving .
and we found that actually there was a correlation . .
in this case , we had about 657 hits to get people to something between two to 59 different fonds . . . .
and what we found was that the more this fond is offered , in fact , the more part of tension
if you look at the extreme , the plans , the two fund calls , had a subtle regime in the seventh audience , and yet they don &apos;t have that high as the way we want .
in now the it places turns that out nearly that 60 even fif onyou ds &apos;re , feeling the self-attenenuabation ling of
, the if sethere venwere th more of opportunities the for percentage choices , , now even , then was , about it the has sixnegative
so , tended people who decided to participate in , rather , that the more opportunities are available to you , the more opportunities they could be able to get them
the more opportunities you can get to you , the more they put their whole money in rent boonels .
none of these extreme decisions belonged to the decisions that someone &apos;s receptired to people when they &apos;re important to their future financial well-being . . .
now , over the last 10 years , we &apos;ve seen three of the most important negative consequences with people who are involved in the
they push the decision -- push them , they even move against their own beam . . interesting . .
they tend to make worse decisions -- worse financial and worse medical decisions . .
they &apos;re getting more to do things that they make even less , even if they do objective better . .
and the main reason for this is that we might enjoy these huge raincalves full of an old tall , naf , vg and marmely , but we don &apos;t actually have the comparison and crossing disorders and then actually can pick something out of the fantastical supply
so what i &apos;d like to suggest to you today are four simple techniques -- techniques that we &apos;ve been testing in different ways and different research in different ways -- that just can apply them in the business . .
first , narrow .
they &apos;ve heard it before , but it never really was , that less people are . less . .
people are always concerned when i say , &quot; limits . &quot;
they always make sure they lose the surface . . .
but we &apos;re really seeing it , and it &apos;s more and more , that if you &apos;re willing to restrict , and you &apos;ll lose the remaining options , well then there &apos;s a rise in sales , it will be cut up , you know , you &apos;re going to have a cost of the cost of the
when proctor and gamble , the different head and command of each of the 26 superup , they did a rate of sales about 10 percent . in sal@@
when the golden cat corporation was going to be taken her 10 most of the calcas , they found that the wins were about 87 percent -- a result of both the sales of sales and reducing cost .
you know , the average supermacro today , you offend 45,000 products .
a typical walmart is offering you 100,000 products today .
but the ninth largest supermarket , which is the world &apos;s largest supermarket in the world , aldi , and they only offer them 1,400 products -- a kind of tomato sauce in doses . . in
now in the world of savings , i believe one of the best examples that have come out of the market recently , about how best they have been to the choices , to how best they have been in the order of choice , is something that is offered at harvard . , it
every single harvard is carrying now to a lifetime of life . . . .
the ones that really want to say , 20 fonds are offered , are going to have to have 300 f@@
you know , people often say , &quot; i don &apos;t know how to tell it .
they &apos;re all important opportunities . &quot;
and the first thing i did is , tell me how the possibilities are different from one another . . . .
and they can &apos;t stand apart , and their customers don &apos;t exist , but their customers
now before we started this morning , i had a conversation with gary . . . .
and gary said that he would be ready to offer all the people in this audience , including a single paid vacation in the world . a single bunch of people in the
here &apos;s a description of the street .
and i &apos;d like to read to you .
and now i &apos;ll give you a couple of seconds to read and say , if you &apos;re willing to take a little bit of a matter of gary &apos;s offer . .
okay . now , one of the ready to adopt gary &apos;s off@@
so are all that ?
okay they , knew let it me was show a you trick a
, little right bit ? more of ? it . .
now , who is ready for this trip . .
i think i &apos;ve heard more hands . .
good . .
in fact they &apos;re realizing , the first time they had more information than when they first , but i would tell you a car that they were feeling in the second time . . , but i would
because the images it lifts it for them .
and what brings me to the second technology that will help them deal with the problem of decision-lasting , it &apos;s the
it &apos;s about people who understand the difference between opportunities , understanding what the consequences are associated with the individual possibilities , and that we need to be comfortable and injured to . . . . . . . . .
why do people spend average 15 to 30 percent more if they use a eco map or a credit card than in barker ? ? money ?
because it &apos;s not really true to the money .
and it turns out that when you manage something that feels concrete , it &apos;s a very good tool , so you can get people to save
so we have a study that i made in a study that i did with shlomo benartzi , and alessandro , we did a study with the people on trumpedal -- employees that worked on touch -- and these people were all in a gathered in a gathered in which
and during that gathering , we &apos;ve just left these convention as well as it was , just adding a small issue . .
the little thing that we &apos;ve made to insist was that we asked people to just think about all the positive things that would happen in their lives if they
in which we did these simple things , there was an increase in attendance about 20 percent , and there was a rise in the number of people who were willing to save or go up by four percent of the savings that they were willing to pay
the third technology : categorization . .
we can better deal with more of these than more choice than with more choice
so , for example , here &apos;s a study we made in a magazine . .
it turns out there &apos;s this downmanthetic at the top and down in the northeastern area , the number of times 331 species of magazines up to 664 magazines . in the newspapers . up to
but you know what ?
if i show you 600 papers and you split it in 10 categories , or i &apos;ll show 400 magazines , and you &apos;ll have them in 20 categories , you think i &apos;ll have more choice and a better choice than i gave you the 400 , you know , i gave you more choice and i have given the
because the categories tell me how to hold them apart .
so here are two different jewelry results .
one is &quot; jazz &quot; and the other is called swing . . is called
if you think the left display is performing swing , and the ad on the right is jazz , you &apos;ll clap in
okay , there are a couple .
if you think that the ones on the left hand is jazz , and the ones on the right side , you &apos;re applying .
okay , a couple more .
well , it turns out they &apos;re right .
on the left , jazz and the right is swing , but you know what ? . you ?
this is a highly inhelbatant category . .
the categories need to tell the extractor to be a choice , not the selection .
and this problem often , you see , is when you look at the long bulks all of these top bul@@
who do you want to inform that ? ?
my fourth technology : prediction for complexity .
it turns out we can actually be able to do more information than we think we just need to simplify them . . . .
we need to increase complexity slowly . .
i &apos;ll give you an example of what i mean . . .
let &apos;s take a very , very complicated decision : the car on a car
here &apos;s a german automaker , who gives you the opportunity to actually configure her car . . .
they have to make 62 different decisions to make their car completely . .
now these decisions are different from the number of choices they offer each decision . .
car colors , opposite color of the car -- i have 56 possibilities . .
motors , gear -- four possibilities .
now what i do is i change the order that makes decisions come . . . . .
half the customers are passing by the many ways of the 56 cars to the low ways that are four proposals . four .
the other half of the clients are taking the ones that have the ones that are in the first place , four different cars , many possibilities . .
what am i looking at ? ?
how do they care about it .
when what you you use find the is dethat fauthe lt people choice who in are the going decision to , have it the means ones you that &apos;re have over@@
the -ones challento ged the , very the low most choice hot over , and i over &apos;m again losing . it . choice . . .
we are losing them .
go from the little choices to the many , stay at that . . .
they &apos;re the same information . it &apos;s the same set of possibilities .
the only thing i did is the order of change in which this information is being presented . . .
when i start with the simple start , i just learn how to choose
even though the gear is selection , i &apos;m not telling anything about my preferences in the interior , still prepare me out . .
it also puts me excited in the big product i put together , and i &apos;m ready to make me feel interested in this . . .
let me wrap up .
i told you about four techniques that are changing the problem of decision-lasting , stealing -- will you be able to do the excess alternate , you know , consideration -- you &apos;re doing it real ; categorition-centralized , categoritionizes --
each of these techniques that i &apos;m describing to you today is to help them manage the possibility of managing -- good for them , they can use them for themselves , good for the people you serve . for
because i think that the key to the best possible choice is that you &apos;re choosing . . .
and the more we &apos;re going to pick up selecting piselical the art , the better we &apos;re going to be able to practice
thank you . .
hi . i &apos;m kevin the zecca , and i &apos;m a job of youtube , i &apos;m looking at youtube video video .
that &apos;s true .
today we want to talk about how video grows wide , and then afterwards that &apos;s important , that &apos;s what it
we all want to be stars -- celebrities , singers , comedian -- when i was young , it seemed so infinitely difficult . . . .
but web videos have provides that we can all be surprised or all of our creative activities in a part of our world &apos;s culture . . . .
and every single one of you could be famous about the internet to the next satur@@
but at youtube more than 48 hours of video , more than 48 hours of video
it &apos;s going to be a tiny percentage of it ever , and it &apos;s going to be thousands of times , and it &apos;s
so how does it work ?
three things : tastemaker , partial parts of the unexpected . .
well , let &apos;s go there .
oh my god . oh my god . .
oh my god ! !
woo-.
ohhhh , wowww ! !
last year , the only joined &quot; vasvasquez joined this video that he photographed before his house in the yose@@
in 2010 , it had been taken up 23 million times .
this chart shows how it looked as the first month was popular for the first time .
in he fact just , wanted not to a share vian ral egvideo va wanted
. to make . . . . . . .
because you &apos;re going to do that , you know , you &apos;re designing yosemite
he had been uploaded all sorts of natural videos .
and this video was actually finished in january already in january . .
what happened here ? ?
this came up here jimmy kim@@
jimmy kimmel ended the tweet that was more popular . popular . popular . .
because tastemaker like jimmy kimve will ask us new and interesting things and show you a big audience . .
it &apos;s the friday , friday , eta hang on the friday , and everyone &apos;s going to go on the school line , weekward , friday , friday . &apos; friday &apos; friday &apos; friday &apos; friday &apos; friday &apos; one i did not think we would have this conversation ,
rebecca black : friday &quot; is one of the world &apos;s most popular videos .
it was almost about 200 million times this year . .
this is what the graphics look like . .
just like &quot; the &quot; double rainbow &quot; seems to be out of nowhere . . it seems .
what happened to this day ? that
well , it was friday , that &apos;s right .
if you were to know : those other tips are too free . . .
but what about that day , this particular friday day ?
well , toshine 0 forsted , lots of blogs started to write about it .
michael j. nelson from mystery science theater was a first to say that he made a joke on twitter . .
what &apos;s important is that a single person or a group of tastemakers took a point of a stand with a big audience and then accelerating the process . .
then , by then , this community of people who shared this great inside , and started talking about playing with it . playing around .
now there &apos;s 10,000 parodies in &quot; friday &quot; at youtube . .
already in the first seven days there was a parody for every single week-end . .
in other words , from the traditional entertainment enterprise , the community participating our way of becoming a part of this phenomenon -- either by spreading it or doing something new . .
&quot; nyan cat &quot; is animation and music in endlessness . . .
it &apos;s , quite simple . .
this year it was taken almost 50 million times . .
and if you &apos;re really sorry that you should know that there &apos;s a three-hour version that &apos;s been looked at four million times . is looking at four
even cats are watching this video .
cats are watching cats that watch this video .
it &apos;s important that creativity , that is in the internet culture of the techman &apos;s culture . . . .
there were remixes .
somebody made an old-fashioned version of that
and then it became international .
a whole recode community took out of the ground , which was made by a stupid joke to something that we could all participate . .
we don &apos;t just find pleasure in the world ; we &apos;re not
who could have been able to see that ? ?
who could have predicted &quot; the founca , &quot; rebecca black or &quot; nyan cat &quot; ? ?
what &apos;s the writer inherently writing in which things are possible ? that &apos;s what &apos;s
in a world where every minute of two days is uploaded by video , only unique and unexpected appearance as the video that i mentioned . . the video that
i admit i wasn &apos;t really interested in a lot of interest when a friend told me i was watching this great video of a guy who was protested in new york against bicycles .
i got a ticket because i &apos;m not on the bike side , but often there are disabilities that i &apos;m going to let you rely on the bike side . . .
and since that was completely surprising and murderly , casey was demonstrating , casey simo was an idea and
this is a shift for everything new we do . . .
and this all takes us to a big question . .
what does that mean ?
ohhh . .
what does that mean ?
tastemaker , creative participants , totally unexpected , are the features of a new kind of media and culture that everyone has access and where the audience is determining the popular part . . . . .
as i said , one of the currently largest stars -- justin bieber -- made his first story at youtube . . . .
nobody needs to give up your ideas green . .
and we also feel like we &apos;re all mamats of our popculture
and these are not the features of old media , and they &apos;re very hardly active to be the media of today , but they &apos;re going to determine the future
thank you .
how do i talk about the interconnectedness between women over three generations , and how the amazing strength of these interconnectedness is the same , as it was , 30 years ago , with her little sister , her mother and grandmother , were in five days with her little sister , her mother and grandmother , five days and nightfully in the chinese sea in the chinese in the chinese , and a vibrant that didn &apos;t get worse in the life of this little girl who was never in san francisco
the story is not passed . .
it i &apos;s want a to puzztell le you that about &apos;s some
going of to the be puzzput le together bits . .
imagine the first bit : a man burst a living piece of life
he &apos;s a poet , a writer , a guy whose whole life was brought from the simple hope of unity and freedom . . . . .
hold it with the communist in saigon , when you &apos;re in the face of the communist in saigon , he
the words , as long as his friends , spotched his .
he he moved died back , to broke
the through silthe ence story . .
he &apos;s my grandfather .
i never met it personally . .
but our lives are so much more than our memories .
my grandmother never forgot me to ever ever forget
i had to make it not for free , and it was my task to learn that history was starting to sweak around , we were getting over it . . . .
the next piece of the puzzle is like running a boat in early homing red on sea . . a boat .
my mom may have 18 , when her father died -- already in a arranged marriage , had two little girls . . at
for them , life had a quest : the flight of their family and a new life in australia . . life .
it was completely excluded to that , that you could fail . .
after a four-year-old and movie rice of saga glicy , he was a boat behind the sea as a fishing boat . . . .
all the adults were aware of the risks
the biggest scared was they had pirate , rape and death
like most adults on the boat , my mother , a little fan bottle , they have a little
when my sister and i would have been a prisoner , and i &apos;d be drinking them and
my first memories are from this boat -- the ever-tipping of the engine , the clapping of every wave on the bug , the range and the rest of
i don &apos;t remember the pirate that came from many times , but from the death of men on our boat , or the absence of the engine , the six hours didn &apos;t want to go . .
but i remember the lights of the oil field outside the malayan coast , and the young man who broke up and died , the end of the journey , was too much for him , and on the taste of the first apb that i gave to one of the men on the
no apple has ever done so again . .
after three months in a refugee camp , we ended up in melbourne .
and the next piece of this piece is by four women in three generations that came together to build a new life .
we went into footpanics , one by the working class , whose population was born in migration , and it &apos;s been a population
unlike the old-lived middle-class suburbs , their existence was entirely unknown , there was no more sophisticated thinking in football . . . .
the scaffolds from the lashuds came from the rest of the
and the breeks were broken among people who had one thing in common : they started getting new . . . . .
my mother worked on farming , then on a flip line in a car factory , six days twice layers .
and they kind of managed to find the time that they &apos;re doing in english
we were poor .
every dollar got shared and put in more education in another school and math , no matter what we needed to do , because the new things that came out of two hands were always made of two hands . . . the
two strings of school for school , each to cover the holes in the other . .
school form to the buttons , because they had to pay six years . . . .
and there were the rare people who were painful , painful chumet , &quot; and here &apos;s the painting : &quot; asian , go home . &quot;
home where ? home ?
something that was enhanced in me .
there was a meeting to reconcile and a quiet voice said , &quot; i &apos;m going to go to you .
my mother , my sister and i slept in the same bed .
my mom was exhausted every night , but we were telling each other from our day , and we heard about the movement of our grandmother in the house
my mom suffered from alpdream from the boat . .
and it was my task , every night , to stay up until her alpdreams came to woke her
she opened a computer business , then did a cosmetian training , and then
and women came along with their stories about men who didn &apos;t commit the change and inflexible , and recommended kids trapped between the two worlds
darleses and sponsors were searched
centers were built . .
i lived in parallelal areas .
in one i was the classic asian student , the uncompatible demands for themselves . . .
and the other thing i &apos;ve been involved in in uncertain life is the tragic anatomars of the violence , the drug abuse and the isolation . .
but so many of the people got help .
and because of this aid , i was exposed to the last year of the year of juveni , as young australian of the
and i got to the next catapulted , and i did the edges fit . . . . .
tan le , anonymous indian from footscrays , was now tan , refugee and social activist who was invited to promote to be popular from places they had never heard , and in houses their existence they could never have imag@@
i didn &apos;t know the label . .
i didn &apos;t know how to fix this steepy . .
i didn &apos;t know how to talk about wine .
i didn &apos;t know how to talk about anything .
i wanted to go back to routine , and the convenience of the life of an unknown prediction -- a grandmother , a mother and two daughters who were sitting in every day as well as 20 years , by telling the stories of the day , and putting the stories on the day . . . .
i told my mother , i wouldn &apos;t do that .
she reminded me that i was now as old as she was taking her boat out . . .
no , it &apos;s never been a way
&quot; do it just said , &quot; she said . &quot; and not what you &apos;re not . &quot; &quot;
so i talked about juvenian and training , and the nearby of marginalized and discount . . . . . .
and the more i talked , the more i should tell you . . .
i met some people in all the groundings of what they loved , as many of them were what they loved in the boundaries of the possible
and although i graduated , i realized i couldn &apos;t find myself with a career in jura .
there must be another puzzle on this . . .
and i realized at the same time that it &apos;s okay to be a outsider , a new chastleatic , new picture -- and not just okay , but something you need to be grateful , maybe a gift of the
because in addition to including the collapse of the horizontal cycle , it can mean that you &apos;re accepted to embrace the assumptions of the environment .
now i &apos;ve gone out enough from my beam space to know that , yes , the world is collapsing but not how you fear it . .
possibilities that would not have been allowed to be encouraged by possibilities .
there was a energy , an uncompromising optimism , a strange softbaus of the humility and the wa@@
so i followed my gut feeling .
i would collect a small team of people who were making the shoe &quot; no resistance challenge . . . . . .
one year we had no 10th . .
i ended up with a huge de soup , and we shared with each other . . .
we worked late until late , late late
most of our ideas were crazy , but they were a pair of brilliant ones , and we created
i met the decision to pull in the united states
just my a gut trip feeling
there again . .
three months later , i was moved and the adventure continued . . .
before i close the talk , i want to tell you about my grandmother
she grew up at a time when confuzism was the social norm and the local mandarin . the most important person . .
life had not changed for centuries .
her father was about to die shortly after her
her mother was on her house .
she was 17 , she was on a sanitor , her mother beat her .
without the support of your husband , she made her a sensation by taking him in trial and was in the case of a much larger way than she won . , and a much greater
&quot; don &apos;t get it . &quot; it &apos;s untrue .
i was just dumped in a hotel room in sydney when she died . 1,000 miles away in melbourne .
i looked through the crab wall and saw them on the other side . .
i knew they came to say goodbye . .
my mother gave me a few minutes after@@
a few days later , we went to a buddhist temple in football pscases and sailing their sarg
we told her stories and insurance that we were still at her .
and in midnight , the monk came along and said he needed to close the sarmo@@
my mother asked us to touch her hand .
she asked the monk , &quot; why is your hand so warm and then the rest of your hand is so cold ? &quot; ?
&quot; because they &apos;re keeping them this morning , &quot; he said . .
&quot; they left them . &quot; . &quot;
if there &apos;s a band in our family , it &apos;s through women . , it &apos;s about
and you see who we were and how life has shaped us , we can now see that the men who might have originated in our lives would be really upset
the defeat would have been simple .
now i &apos;d have to have my own kids , and i still think that boat .
who would ever want to wish one ? ?
yes , i &apos;m afraid of privilege , primorty , outside of advocacy
can i give you a bug in your life , who is in courageous every wave , who is unlocked , and stealing tuckers of the engine , the long horizon that doesn &apos;t even guar@@
i don &apos;t know .
but if i could give this , and you could definitely get through it , i would do it
and also , tans &apos;s mother today is in the fourth or five series . .
i &apos;m here to share my photography with you
is it all photography at all
because of course , this is a picture you can &apos;t record with your camera . .
and yet , my interest in photography , when i was in my first digital camera , was in the age
and i put it with my former prevention of drawing , but it was a little different , because using the camera was a lot of the process of
and when you take a picture with a camera , it ends up when you press the fuel . .
so to me it seemed more like this photography to be at the right time at the right time .
i believed everybody could . . .
so i wanted to create something else , something that process is starting when it &apos;s being pressed . .
pictures like this : one construction site along there is a much more f@@
but and it yet has , an reunpair expected an turn reali@@
. stic level . . . . . .
or photographs like this -- dark and colorful , but all with the common objective to keep a realistic level . . .
when i say reality , i mean &quot; photoreality . &quot; .
because , of course , she &apos;s not something you can capture , but i would always like to make it look like you could have had it on a photograph . .
and so i it think &apos;s of more a about brief capmoment turing to an get idea
the as idea really out a . moment . . . . .
but what is the trick that makes it more realistic ?
is it all about the details or the colors ?
is what it does about the the illusion
light create ? ? ? ?
sometimes the perspective is illusion . .
but after all , it &apos;s about how we interpret the world , and how can you be made in a two-dimensional area . .
it &apos;s not about what is realistic , but what we think is a very realistic .
so i think the principles are very simple . .
i see them as a jar of reality , and you can take a different kind of reality , and to put together different pieces of reality .
and let me show you a simple example .
so we have three perfectly imaginable physical objects that we can all identify with in a three-dimensional world . . .
but in a certain way , combined with each other , you can create something that looks still like three-dimensional as if
but at the same time , we know that it &apos;s not possible
so we overlier your brains , because our brain just simply doesn &apos;t make it really , it &apos;s not really really
and i see the same process in combination of photographs .
it &apos;s really just about combining different realities .
so things that make a realistic picture , i think it &apos;s the things we don &apos;t think about , the things around us in our everyday lives . things around us .
but if we combine pictures , it &apos;s really important to think about it , because otherwise you &apos;re sort of
so i would like to say that there are three simple rules to come up with a realistic result .
and but as , you you can know see , , you these
can are do not something three special special like images this . .
so the first rule is that combined photos should be the same perspective .
secondly , they should have combined photos . . .
and these two pictures fill these two demands -- from the same alality , and the same illuminating species . .
third , it &apos;s about making it impossible to make it clear where the individual images start and end by putting them into seamlessly
make it impossible to say , in fact , the picture was put together
so , by comparing paint , contrast and brightness to the edges of the individual images , trading photographic rat , like wilddepth , and disorders , we &apos;re screaming the boundaries between the different images and let them look like a single photograph , although a picture is basically capable of hundreds of levels . . contains . a
here &apos;s another example . .
you might think that this is just a landscape of landscape , and it &apos;s manipulated by the bottom bit .
but in fact , this picture is completely composed , collected by photographs of
i personally found a place called a place , to find a place , because you don &apos;t have to go into a compromise and you can &apos;t get your ideas in your head
but it requires a lot of planning . .
and when i had this idea in winter , i knew i &apos;d had a couple of months to plan it to plan the different places for the pieces of the puzzle .
for example , the fish had been taken on a shore . a
the bank came from a different place . .
the underwater part is from a quarry . . .
and yeah , i &apos;ve even colored the house on the top of the island to make it float . .
to reach a more realistic outcome , i found out , looked at it on
i always start with a sketch , an idea .
after and that here , &apos;s it every &apos;s piece about
of combinvery ation well-of plandifferent ned images .
and then when you take good pictures , the result is pretty beautiful , and also pretty realistic . realistic .
so , it &apos;s all available to be there , and the only thing that mimics us is our
thank you .
i &apos;d like to talk to you about why so many electronic health projects fail
and i think the most important thing is we stopped talking about our patients . . .
and one of the things we &apos;ve been doing on the bibpolid-at university was to take a major audience . .
it &apos;s not particularly scientifically about this -- she &apos;s making a cup of coffee or a tet and asks the patients , families , relatives , &quot; how are we ?
how can we help you ? &quot;
and we think we want to think that this is one of the main problems why everyone -- maybe most of the electronic health projects are missing , because we stopped listening . . .
this is my wlan-wanivian . very simple thing .
she &apos;s got a button on a number . .
and every morning i go on that . .
and yes , i have a problem , as you might recognize . .
i put my job at 95 king . .
simple , it &apos;s just working , every time i walk on the calm , it &apos;s going to be my data on google health . health
and they also called it from my general identity , so it can tell where my weight is , not only in the moment i need cardiology support or so , but also a glimpse into the past . . . . .
but there &apos;s something else .
maybe you know what i &apos;ve got about 4,000 followers on twitter . . .
so every morning i jumped on my wum and people talk with me before i &apos;m in the car , &quot; i &apos;m just going to lunch a little salad today , lucid . &quot;
but that &apos;s the latest thing that can happen because it &apos;s the group forced to help groups , because it could be used against the canena , or it could be deployed patients to get a smoke . . ,
but it could also be used to get people out of their chairs , and to get them to play some kind of play in their health . to control their health . . . .
the next week , that &apos;s going to go to the market
it will give this little blood pressure device that acts on an iphone or something . .
and it &apos;s going to enable people to measure their blood pressure , send it to their doctor and share it for them for some more than 100 dollars . for a little over 100 dollars
now at that point , these are the patients in the game , they can &apos;t just take control , give money on their own ship , but also relentless to help us in health care about the challenges that are ahead of us , and the cost explosion of public health , double-demand ,
make the ways that are easy to use and capture with that , patients in the team . .
and you can do that through these kinds of things , but also through crowdsourcing .
and one of the things we &apos;ve done is , i &apos;d like to share with you a little short video
we all have navigation systems in our cars . .
maybe even in our mobile phones . . . .
we know exactly where every money of money is around the aastricht . .
we know one more thing , where the stations are . .
and but sure where enough would , the we next can afind ed fast go
food to chain help . this patient . ? . ?
we asked them , and nobody knew .
nobody so knew what where did the we next do life? -we saving did acrowed dwas sour@@
going ced to crowfind dup sourat ced that . moment . . . .
we created an internal record and asked a human population , &quot; if you see an aed , please tell you where he is , when he has , &quot; because sometimes he &apos;s closed out of business , of course . . . time .
and over 10,000 aeters have already gained in the netherlands . . .
the and next we step designed was an to ifind pad the apapp@@
p s . . . . . .
we &apos;ve created an app for layar , and we &apos;ve been expanded reality to find these
and if you &apos;re in a city like maastricht , and someone crawling together , you can use your iphone , and within the next few weeks , you can use micro-computer to save the next a.r. saving
and today , we &apos;re expecting not only to be aedleu , like the product called , but also to bring in aedbrous . . . .
and we want to bring this to a global level . .
and we ask our colleagues all over the world , from other universities , to help us behave like kisses in the world to crowdsource these aeds all over the world . a lot of these aeds in the
and if you &apos;re in vacation and someone craws together , it &apos;s your own way of your own body , or somebody else , you can find an aims
the other thing we want to ask is that companies around the world are helping us to help us in confirmation of that age . . .
these could be curi-like services , or technicians , for example , just to make sure that the customer is still in its place .
please help us and try to make health not just improve something , but take the hand . . . . .
thank you .
today i &apos;m going to report from unexpected discoveries .
i work in solar technology industries . .
and my little startup would be able to force us by doing ... by making ...
... here it &apos;s &apos;s a a short crowvideo dof
sourwhat cing we re&apos;re view doing . .
oh . a moment . . .
it &apos;ll take you to be invited for it
so -- we can skip this way -- i &apos;m going to just leave the video off . off
no .
that &apos;s not ...
okay .
solar technology is ...
oh , my time is past ? my
okay . thank you . .
so a couple of years ago , i started a program to get the stars in technology and design to take out a year and work in an environment that &apos;s pretty much like , what they &apos;re going to hate , we &apos;ve been working on government . .
the program is called code for america , and it &apos;s a bit like peace of peace for computer geeks . .
we pick some roundwalts every year and we &apos;re going to work them with city dials
so instead of sending it into the third world , we send them in rathhouses . . .
and they developed great apps where they worked with urban workers . . .
but what you &apos;re really doing is show what is possible with technology . . .
so they make al .
al is a hydrant in boston . . .
here it looks like he &apos;s looking at a date , but what he really is looking for is somebody who &apos;s throwing him out when he &apos;s in his convention , because he knows he &apos;s not very good at the branded position when he &apos;s covered by his foot . snowed
how did he get to look for this particular way of help ? ? how he
we had a team of rock wholl last year in boston , the code for america .
they and were they there realized in that februthe ary city , is and never it li&apos;s fgot
ted much to more this courhytesdry ant last . february . . .
but a particular fellow , a man named erik mandels-obder , found something else , and that was that the people were getting out of the sidewalks right in front of these . .
so he did what any good developer would do , he wrote an app .
it &apos;s a nice little app where you can adopt a hydrant . .
you were wrong to screw him up , when it &apos;s quick .
if you do that , you can give him a name , and he called the first al .
if you do not do that , somebody can take away from it .
so there &apos;s a nice little game dynamic . . .
this is a humble little app .
it &apos;s probably the smallest apps of 21 apps that the rows have written in the last
but she does something that no other government technology does . .
it &apos;s spreading up rapidly .
there &apos;s the guy in the i.t. abtel department of the city of honolulu , who &apos;s been using the app , not for snow , but for the citizens of tsunami , the citizens were adopting the tsunami
it &apos;s very important that these tsunami-sights work , but people steal batteries . . .
so he got the citizens to check them . .
and then seattle decided to get the app to get people to clean up the buppets .
and chicago just introduced it to the burecates , so that people blowing the burerity off when they run .
we now know nine cities , which are planning to use these app .
and she spread very disgusting , organic , natural . . .
you know , if you know about government technology , you &apos;re not usually going to work that way .
the creation of software takes a few years into the rule of
we had a team that worked on a project last year , for the three people , two and a half months . .
it was about a way of finding parents to find out that the right public school schools are for their
we told us later that if it were going over the normal canals , it took over two years and it would have been paid over two million dollars . it would have
and that &apos;s nothing nothing .
there &apos;s currently a project in california that has been paying the tax transplant two billion dollars , and it doesn &apos;t work . .
and there are projects like this on every level of government .
so an app that &apos;s written in a few days , and then from selected , it &apos;s a kind of sound in front of the government that &apos;s going on in the
it shows how the government could work better -- no more like a private company , how many people think that it should
and not like a technique company , but rather like the web itself .
and that means liberating , which means that , open and productive . . .
and that &apos;s important .
but more importantly , it &apos;s about that app , that she represents a new generation of the problem of government -- not as the problem of sales , but as a problem of collective action , but as a problem of collective action
and this is a very good news , because it turns out that we are very good at collecting collective action with digital
now there &apos;s a big community of people who are making the tools that we need to put things together in order to put
it &apos;s not just &quot; code for america &quot; rolows , there are hundreds of people across the country who are standing there writing government applies , every day in their own communities .
they didn &apos;t give up the government .
they &apos;re terrified with it , but they don &apos;t complain about it , they fix them . . .
and these guys know what we &apos;ve lost from the eyes .
and that is , if you all look at your senses about politics and the snake in the workline and all those other things we really excuse are the government , at the core of tim , in the words of tim , on rilly , &quot; what we do , we can &apos;t do it alone . &quot;
now , a lot of people have given up the government .
and if you &apos;re one person , please i want you to think about it , because things change . things change
politics doesn &apos;t change ; the government is change .
and because the government ultimately performs its power from us -- remember , you &apos;re thinking , &quot; we &apos;ll be the people ? &quot; -- as we think about it , things are
i didn &apos;t know very much about the government than i started this program .
and how many people , i thought , was mainly about the government , people in the order of choo@@
now , two years after , i came to the conclusion that most of the time in community communities are actually about to be the
that &apos;s the call center for the service and information center .
they typically come out when you go to the 311 phone &apos;clock . .
if you ever have the opportunity to work in your city tomorrow center , as our fellow scott silver , as part of the program -- in fact , do you do that -- you &apos;ll see that the people who call government for many different problems , including a fact that a margin in your house is in your house .
so scott gets this stimulated .
it and &apos;s he called doesn &quot; &apos;t threally underknow s an &quot; idea
in . the he offi&apos;s cial starting datwith abthe ase animal . &apos;s
and finally he says , &quot; look , can you open all the doors in your house and see if the livestock is abashing ? &quot; livestock
and that worked . for applying scott . .
but that was not the end of the thylacines .
but boston hasn &apos;t just got a call center .
it has an app , a web and hand app , called &quot; citizens . &quot;
we didn &apos;t write these app . .
this is a very smart people in the new urban mechanics in boston . in boston . in
one day -- this is an actual record -- this is a real report -- &quot; thylacines in my garbage garbage . cannot i say whether
how do i get it away ? &quot; ?
but what happened to &quot; citizens have come . &quot;
scott was a man &apos;s man . man
but citizens are public policy all the way on , so everybody can see it
and in this case , it saw a neighbor .
and the next post that we got was , &quot; i went over there , i went over there , found the garbage bur@@
thylacines ? yes . live alive ? yops
turned the landton on the page . went home .
good night , sweet thylts . &quot;
pretty simple .
that &apos;s great . this is the physical . here is where the
and it &apos;s also a good example of how to get government into the crowdsourcing .
but and it i &apos;s don also &apos;t a necessarily great mean example that
of there government &apos;s as a a technical platform definition . of the
i &apos;m talking to you more than a platform for people , to help themselves and to help
a citizen served to make a different citizen , but the government was playing a
they co-link these two people .
and you could be able to get it off to government level , if they had adopted it , but an advantage is a far better and cheaper alternative to
when let an &apos;s adcall vent the to animal the starother ster
is , the it other costs to a delot fof end money
one of the most important things is we have to think about this , that government is not the same as politics .
and most people understand this but they believe that one is the input of the other . .
that our contribution to the system is the vote . .
how many times do we chose a political leader -- and sometimes we used a lot of energy to choose a new political leader -- and then we lean back and we expect the government to reflect our values and fulfillment our needs , and then not have a
that &apos;s because the government is like an emerging ocean and politics is the top 15 inches . in 15
and what &apos;s below is what we call bureaucracy . .
and we use this word with such develation .
but it &apos;s this tempt that this sort of thing we own and for that we pay for us to be something different for us , and then we made ourselves . . . . .
people seem to think , politics is sexy .
if we want this institution to work for us , we need to do bureauhid . . . .
because we that need &apos;s to where have the the governgovernment
ance &apos;s budget machine is . happening . .
so the accompaniatis movement has done it .
did you see these guys ?
it &apos;s a group of trouble-raised citizens written a very detailed 325-page report , which is an answer to the sec memo . a legal reform on the national re@@
this is not political activity , that &apos;s buretic . active . . .
well , for those of us who have given the government , it &apos;s time we want to think about the world that we want to leave our children . .
you have to imagine the grand challenges that you have to ask . .
do we really believe that we can get what we need to achieve without having an institution that can act in the name of all of us ? ? ?
a government is absolutely necessary , but it has to become more efficient . . .
the good news is that technology makes possible to suggest the function of government in a way that can actually achieve something by getting the society . . . .
and there &apos;s a generation that grew up with the internet , and knowing that it &apos;s not that hard to do things together , you have to create the only systems that are just right . systems .
now the average age of our adversaries is 28 , so i &apos;m , unfortunately , almost one generation older than most of you . . than most
this is a generation that has grown up to see her voice for granted . .
they &apos;re not fighting this battle that we &apos;re all fighting , which is , who can talk ; they all agree .
you can make your mind , at every time , and you can do it . in every
so if you &apos;re confronted with the problem of government , not so much about using your voices . .
they use their hands . .
they use their hands , writing applications , which are improving government &apos;s work
and that apps will take us to use our hands to improve our communities .
it might be , to hunt a hydrant , housing a trunk with a bow . a bow . a bow .
and sure , if we could have all this hydrant out all the time , and many people do this . a
but these apps are like little digital memories that we are not only consumers , and we are not only government leaders who pay taxes and receive services . enough . .
we &apos;re more than that , we are citizens .
and we &apos;re not going to improve government until we &apos;re getting government citizenship
so the question i have here for all of you here : if it &apos;s about the big , important things we need to do together , we &apos;re going to be just a set of voices , or are we going to be a lot of hands ? , we &apos;re going to be
thank you .
what i do normally is to explain people about how wonderful the new technologies that are coming out of the rise are going to be , and i thought , since i &apos;m here under my friends , i would tell you what i really think . and also look back and understand what is really about , with these incredible jumps forward , which is going to happen so quickly that we can hardly be able to miss . .
i &apos;m going to start by showing you one , boring slide . . .
so , you could just show the slide for a moment . . .
this is a slide i used to be picked out of my folder .
it &apos;s not me the details of the slide , but actually , about the standard form . . . .
this slide is showing data from an analysis of the real-limitor of the reference of the land networks compared to the power of a tree networks .
and the interesting thing is that this slide , like this mankind other , we &apos;re often meeting in our field , a kind of just on a semi-log curve . . in
in other words , each step here is a potentom-scale material in the performance .
and this is a new reality that we need to use this guy scale up the semi-logari@@
something very strange is happening here . here
this is essentially what i &apos;m going to talk about here . .
so , if you could turn the light again .
another more bold because i &apos;m going to draw on the paper a little bit . here . .
now why do we draw grades in technology on semi-logarithmic cur@@
and the reason for that is that if i were drawing it on a normal curve , let &apos;s say this is the years , so the timeline of a way , and this is a random measure of technology that i want to tell you with a graph , then the graph will
you see that . . .
and that doesn &apos;t tell us a lot .
now , if i want to record another technology , let &apos;s say a transportation technology , then that would be very unreasonable to the semi-logarithmic scale , which is very un@@
but if something like this is happening , it changes quality conditions . changes .
so if the transportation technology would continue as fast as the microprocessor technology , we could go overnight into a cab and in 30 seconds we would be in tokyo . in tokyo .
but that &apos;s not that fast .
it has never been before in the history of technology , this kind of recursionurer growth , which increases exponentially all of these years exponentially . .
the question i want to ask you now is , if you look at these exponential curves , you &apos;re not going to go on and on
it &apos;s not possible that everything will be evolving and forever , as
there are two ways . . .
either it &apos;s going to be a classic syevive like this , until something completely new from it , or it &apos;s going to happen here . . .
that &apos;s it . . .
now , i &apos;m an optimist , so i think something like this is going to happen in the way that i
so , is this really like , you know , we &apos;re in a process right now . .
we so &apos;re the here question on i this &apos;m line asking , , in and a also way i of &apos;ve getting got past myself the myself
world , &apos;s is sethis as new to world a going new to kind be of like world ? . ? a new this
what is this new state of state that takes the world slowly ?
because the transition seems very , very confusing , if you &apos;re in the middle of it .
and when i was a kid , there was a place in 2000 , and people would talk a lot about what would happen in 2000 year 2000 . . .
now , here &apos;s a conference here , where people talk about the future , and you realize the future is still about 2000 . in 2000
we &apos;re not going to go beyond that . .
so in other words , the future is shringed by every year i am in the world since i am .
i think the reason for that is that we realize that anything is happening . .
the transition is happening . we can feel it all .
and we know it &apos;s just not a sense of trying to look at 30 or 50 years into the future , because it &apos;s going to be so different that a simple time sequence of what we &apos;re doing now , it makes sense to make sense
i want to talk to you now what that might be like , that transition that we &apos;re in right now . . .
i &apos;m going to talk first about a couple of other things that really don &apos;t have nothing to do with technology or computers . . .
because i think understanding this really is , we need to step back and look at the thing on a longer scale . .
and that &apos;s what i want to look at in the scales of life of the earth . . .
i think the big picture gives sense to a moment when you divide it into a few more steps .
so let &apos;s go back , and that &apos;s nine and a half billion years ago , and the earth was a big , sterile stone pen with a lot of the chemicals that were flo@@
now , if you look at the way these chemicals were organized , then it gives us a pretty good picture about how they did it .
i also believe there are theories that are starting to understand like anything started with rna , but i &apos;m going to give you a simplistic story of what &apos;s said that at that time , little oil droplets had gathered around in the same ways that they &apos;ve come from . oil spill , which had different
some of these oil tags had a special combination of chemicals that allowed them to incorporate other chemicals from outside and to grow . . . . .
they were all so , they came up . . . .
these little oil drives were the primitive cell form . . . . . .
but , in fact , these oil drives are not life-filling in the realm of the behavior , because every single one of them was only a small
and each time it divided , it &apos;s enabled chemicals to be disconnected . . .
so every flush , a little different . .
in fact , the droplet which had one for the growth of the infrastructure was faster than others and integrated more and more chemicals and more chemicals were getting out of numbers and divided quickly . .
so this tendency to survive longer and they increased it in larger
so this is just a very simple chemical form of life , but more interesting it will be when these drip peaky learned a trick about abstraction .
in they some learned ways to we store haven the &apos;t requite poyet und understood of , the these cell droas
pleinformation ts , learn and to in suba scriparticular be chemical information form . , we . call dna
in other words , they &apos;ve found a way to kind of find a way to refuse a way to give them dedicated to what they stood on , so that this information could be stored and copied .
the amazing thing is that this kind of information stores over time by 2.5 billion years , where it came from , right ? stayed
in fact , the recipe represents us , which is our genes , from the exact same code and the same sym@@
and each of those beings is the exact same thing and the same code . . . .
we &apos;re so far that , only for the pleasure of being able to write ourselves , even for the pleasure of this code . . .
and i &apos;ve got 100 microgram of a white pulse , which i try to keep out in airports from security interviewers . trying to keep
in this area there -- what i &apos;ve done is i took this code -- the code is made of regular letters , which we use to symbolize , and i wrote my business card on a piece of dna , and i wrote it 10 ^ 22 .
so , if a hundred million copies of my business card , i &apos;m paying enough to everybody in this room , and even for everybody in this world , and it &apos;s right here . here . in the
if i had actually been an egoma , i would have written it on a virus , and i would release it .
so what &apos;s the next step ?
the subsidious one was an interesting step
and this was what these cells did -- that made them happy for another billion years
but then another thing happened , very interesting step , where things were completely different , and so these cells began to communicate and exchange information so that communities evolved from cells . that &apos;s where
i don &apos;t know if you knew that , but bacteria can actually delete their
and this is why you &apos;re growing the durasis to antibiotics .
some bacteria have figured out how to keep from penicillin and have this information put together with other bacteria into the dna , and now we &apos;ve got plenty of bacteria that are resistant to penicillin because the bacteria communicate together .
now , this communication was allowed to do this set of communities that were in a certain sense , but they were synervertics . .
so now they the either transisurvive tional together space , is or where they these would communities go are together so , close and together that that meant they that decided if to a write community the was
recisuccessful pe , for all the individuals whole of community the into community a were sign repechain at. edly . repeated . , and . from evolution . .
and the next interesting period took about another billion years . about another billion years .
at this point , we have multi-multi-multi-multi-cellular communities , communities of many different cell subtals , which operate together as single organism
indeed , we &apos;re also such a multi-multi-multi-community community .
we have many cells that are no longer determined by themselves .
your skin cells are useless without heart cells , muscle cells , brain cells and so on . . .
so these communities were evolving , so that the level of evolution was no longer the single cell , but the entire cell community that we call organism . . .
the next step was going into this community . .
the cell communities started to abstract information . . .
and they developed specifically specialized structures that did nothing else than process information within the organism
and these are the neural structures .
so the neurons are information processed , which these cell communities have built . . .
they started training specialists in the community , specifically structures , which were responsible for learning and understanding and building information . data . .
and this was the brain , and the nervous system of these communities .
this gave them an evolutionary advantage . .
because at that point , an individual -- learning happened within a period of life , rather than that evolutionary timeless of a single organism , instead of through
so an organism could learn , for example , not eating a certain fruit because it was freely tasted and made it sick , the last time he eaten them
now , this could be done inside the lifetime of a single organism , whereas by hundreds of thousands of years , it had to be learned because this information of evolutionary technology has to be learned from the individuals that died because of these fruit , because these information process@@
so the nervous system has this particular process of information processing , because evolution has now been around to an individual . .
it could be taken in a time-like
what happened next is that the individual organisms found a way to communicate in each other . .
for example , as an example , the most sophisticated ones of this communication type is the human
but it &apos;s a pretty amazing invention that you think about it .
i have a very complicated , instructional and confused idea in my head .
i &apos;m sitting here , and i &apos;m basically giving grutting notes of me , hoping to create a similar idea with your original idea , which has some similarity to
so we take something very complicated , transform it in sound , a sequence of sound , and then we produce something very complicated in the minds of
so this allows us to do as a one-way organism . . . .
and what we did , we , the humankind , is we &apos;ve got abstract . abstract .
we &apos;re going through the same stages , which have been through multiple cell organisms -- the abstraction of our methods , how we present data , process . .
for example , the invention of language was a little step in that direction . .
telephony , computers , video details , cd-roms , and so on , all the specialized mechanisms that we built in our community to have that information . . .
and it combines us all together to do something much bigger , and also be able to evolve faster than we &apos;ve been . .
so today , evolution can happen in the time time of microseconds .
you &apos;ve seen also &quot; ys a little evolutionary example , where he has showed a little bit of evolution in the convoling program , right in your
so now we &apos;ve released the scales . . .
the first steps in history that i told you , that a billion years left . . .
the next steps , like the nervous system and the brain , for several hundred million years .
then the next few steps , like language and so forth , less than a million years .
and those next steps , as electronics , are just a few decades to take . .
the process is feeding by itself and becomes , i think , car catalyst is the word for -- if something is enamemed by its change .
the more it changes , the faster it changes .
and i think that &apos;s what we &apos;re seeing here in this explosion of explosions . .
we see the process that feeds from itself .
i live in a professional way of making computers , and i know that i could use the mechanism that i use to build computers , without the exposure
my current activity is to design objects with such a high complexity that it &apos;s impossible to design them in the traditional sense of design . . .
i don &apos;t know what any transistor in the machine machine does .
it has billions of those .
what i do , and whatever the designers of thinking use , is we think of a certain abstract , over-a-mindy-type , which is that this machine and machine makes it something to exceute our ability to depend better and faster than we ever
and it makes it partly with methods that we don &apos;t really understand . . .
one way that &apos;s particularly interesting , and what i &apos;ve been using recently is evolution itself . .
and in this instant , we install an evolutionary process in the machine that is happening in the microsea area .
to give an example , in the most extreme cases , we can create a program that &apos;s evolved from random instructions . . .
we say , &quot; computers , comics , please , can be picked up a hundred million by instruc@@
now , i &apos;m going to ask all of these random instructions , leaders all the time , and then take all the stuff that i have on my trial . &quot; . &quot; &quot; to
so in other words , i &apos;m going to start doing what
let &apos;s say i want to make nucles , that would be a simple example of which i
so , there are programs that can be the most of all numbers of the
of course , if you have a chance to instructiate , instructions are very small , they &apos;re not making numbers of numbers ,
but one of them may have a little bit lucky to reject two numbers into the right
now i say , &quot; computers , take the 10 percent of the sequences , which are the next one that i have left my research
store those down , fire the rest .
now , the rest of the remaining , the number of remains that are
and with a method of recombine , analog to reproduction . &quot; . &quot;
take two challenges , and they produce kids through the exchange of their subroutines , and the kids are missing the features of the subroutines from the two programs .
so now i have a new generation of programs that came out of combinations of software , which have come to a little bit closer to the
tell me , &quot; please repeat this process . &quot;
keep them back . .
show some mutations . .
and try and try this one again to another generation .
all these generations require just a few milliseconds . needs to take
and so i can spend evolution over millions of years in the computer in just a few minutes or more complex cases . , for some hours . . .
and finally , i do programs that make nucleous numbers perfectly . . . .
in fact , these programs are so much more efficient than any program i could ever written from hand . .
if i look at these programs , i can &apos;t tell you how to work . .
i tried to understand them . . . . .
they &apos;re more troubled and odd programs .
but they do the job .
i know and i &apos;m sure you &apos;re doing the job doing this because you come from a series of thousands of programs that got the job done . . . .
because their lives depended on whether they did the job right .
i was once in a 747 meeting with marvin minsky , he &apos;s got a map , and he says , &quot; oh look . look at that . &quot;
and that &apos;s where there is a hundred thousand pieces of small-and-thousands of pieces of work that are working together to make your flight secure . &apos; makes you not
we know that a process of development doesn &apos;t have the optimal sense of being too complicated .
so let &apos;s start off on computers , for a process that &apos;s very distinguished by the classic
it allows us to do things with a much more complicated value than the normal methods of
and yet we don &apos;t understand the capability yet . . .
so , in a way , the technology is going to tell us
we now use these programs to do much faster so that we can make this processes even faster . . . .
so it creates a feedback . . .
it &apos;s going to be faster and faster , and i think that &apos;s why it seems so
because all of these new technologies are feeding themselves from themselves .
we &apos;re going to raise .
we &apos;re at a point of time that analog is to have a multi-cell organisms developed multiple cell organisms . . . . .
so we &apos;re the amemians , and we can &apos;t quite easily see what the hell we &apos;re actually about to do .
we &apos;re in the middle of that transitional point
but i really do believe that after us , there is something else .
i find it very tigently to say that we are the final product of evolution . . .
and i think we all agree here in the part of creation of what is next . .
now , lunch is before , and i think i &apos;m listening now , before i get out of here . . .
my story starts right here in rajasthan , about two years ago .
i was under the stark of the desert with sufi singers in the middle of the desert with suki . ali
we talked about nothing has changed since the time of ancient indian epos , &quot; mahabharata . &quot; . &quot; .
if we wanted to travel in the back of the time , we went into a car and we screw over the sky . . a crest
now we &apos;re doing this with airplanes .
at the time , when the great indian warrior had armed , he took a bowed , shot in the floor and drinking it . . a hole . a hole . water . .
now we &apos;re doing this with drivers and machines . .
we came to the conclusion that the magic and magic were placed by machines . .
that i made got me some sad sc. ared of . technology
. . . . . . . .
it was terribly frightening that i could lose the ability to have the sunset without the cash without any tweet to my friends . . . .
i thought technology should make a possible thing , and not killing that .
when i was a little girl , my grandfather gave me his little silver pocket watch .
this piece of 50 years old , the most magic thing for me was the most magic thing
it became a gold rush to get a world of pipes and unhappy ships and to pictures in my imagination . . .
it seemed like our offshore and our offspring would dream of it . like we started to dream . .
they were inspired by us to be inspired
and so i went to the world of technology to see how i could use them , to make a magic , rather than killing . . . . .
and at 16 , i started to illustrate books . .
when i saw the ipad , i saw it as a device to tell the storytleon that can connect the reader on the
it can know how to do it . how
it can know where we are .
it &apos;s taking pictures and words together , animation and spokesness
the storytelling takes it all the way . .
but what do we do about that ?
now i &apos;m going to go and do a little bit of khoya , an interactive ipad . . .
here &apos;s &quot; throw your finger on your light . &quot; . .
and so -- here it is : &quot; this box belongs , &quot; i write my name . . .
and i &apos;m going to get a character in the book
and then again , a letter to me down -- and the ipad knows by gps , where i live -- it &apos;s really true to me . in addressing
and i &apos;m really excited about this kid in me . .
i talked a lot about magic . . .
i don &apos;t mean magic and dragons , but the magic of the career , the ideas that we all had as children . . . ideas that we
fireflies in a glass , i always found quite exciting . . glowing . glow .
so you have to skip the ipad and let the light flies make out . .
and the lighting is the way through the rest of the book . .
another idea that fascinated me as a child is that it can put a whole galaxy in a single compass . . .
and therefore every book will become a small fake , and every world , a small fake , which i &apos;m going to sing here to the magic
and that opens a map . .
fantasy had already maps , but these cards were static . . . .
this map is growing and glows and uses to guide the rest of the book . . .
it also shows other forms of the book . . . .
i &apos;m in here . . .
it &apos;s also important to me to make something that insane is also very tiined . .
these are the apsaras . . .
we &apos;ve heard of fees and nypes , but how many people outside of india are familiar their indian colleagues , the apneakas ? ? that the apshas ?
the poor apsaras had been caught thousands of years in indras &apos;s beats in an old book . . . .
and we take them back , in a contemporary history for children . .
a story that comes along with new issues , like the environmental crisis . .
in the theme of environmental crisis , a big problem of the last 10 years is that kids are sitting in their rooms , no way to go out on their computers , no way to go out . . . . .
but now , with mobile technology , we can take our kids into the natural world with their technology . .
in an interaction of the book , you &apos;re being sent to a search . you &apos;ve got to go out and collect the camera &apos;s pictures of natural objects . . . . . .
i was a child when i was a kid in high tales , stones , kidbling and shells .
and so , the children don &apos;t make it .
this is a childhood ritual restored , you have to go out to make a photograph of a flower , and to do it . . .
in another chapter , you have to do a piece of scmri photography and tag . .
so you can actually put a digital collection of photographs that you can put online online . . .
a child in london shows the picture of a set and says , &quot; oh , i &apos;ve seen a queue of this . &quot;
a child in india says , &quot; i &apos;ve seen an aptery . &quot;
and that creates a kind of social network around a digital collection of photographs that you &apos;ve actually taken .
and so there &apos;s a variety of opportunities to be magical , and connecting the world and technology
in the next book , we &apos;re doing an interaction where you use the ipads video and you can see it by augmented reality a animation that appears to appear in front of the house . a plant from the front of the house
one place , the screen fills with leaves . .
you have to make the sound of the wind , you have to fly away and read the rest of the bay .
we all move towards a world where the forces of technology are coming closer to the emulate technology and can be able to approach technology . . . .
we use the energy of the sun . . .
we bring our kids closer and closer to the natural world , and we &apos;re going to get into the magic , and fun and love of our childhood through the simple
thank you .
this is really an extraordinary honor for me . .
i spend most of my time with people in research , prisons or death cells . .
i spend most of my time with the socially weakest in social construction settings and places that there &apos;s a lot of hope .
being here at ted , watching and hearing how stimulating this is , has given me a lot of strength . a lot
in the short time here , i was clear to me : this is what &apos;s done here . has an
you can say things that have influence in the world . . . .
and sometimes , when something comes to ted , it makes a significance and a force that otherwise would not have .
i say that because i think that identity is very important .
we &apos;ve seen some fantastic presentations . .
i think we &apos;ve learned that the words of a teacher have meaning , but that &apos;s particularly meaningful to a more common teacher . . . . . . .
as a doctor , you can do good . as a careful doctor , but you can do more . than that . care .
and so i want to talk about the power of identity .
i didn &apos;t learn that in my work as a lawyer . . . .
i learned this from my grandmother . .
i got high in a family , a traditional africanratic household , which was dominated by a matriarch , and this matriarch was my
she was a pivoon , strong woman , she had an
she had the last word in every family . .
she was also the starting point of a lot of conflict in our family .
she was a slave family daughter . . . .
their parents were born in virginia in the 1840s as a slavery .
she was born in 1880 , and the experience of slavery formed her worldlife very heavily . . a
my grandmother was strong , but she was also loving . .
when so i i met felt them so as strona gyoung ly boy that , i she could came barup ely to brea@@
me the and , huand gthen ged she me would . let me . go . . . .
one or two hours later , when i met her , she came up to me and she said , &quot; bryan , do you feel my embrace ? &quot; ? ? my um@@
and when i said no to , they hugged me back . if i said , &quot; yes , she &apos;d let me go . . . .
she was something that was made you want to be near you . .
the only problem with this was that they had 10 children .
my mom was the youngest of her young children .
sometimes when i spent time with their time , it was hard to get their attention . enough . . .
my cousin would walk around everywhere . .
i remember , i &apos;ve got to have been eight or nine , and i woke up in the room one morning and went around in the living room all my cousins were going .
my grandmother was sitting at the end of the room and staring at
first , i thought that this would be a game .
i saw her and smiled , but she looked very serious . . .
and that was 15 or 20 minutes , and then she stood up and she came over to me . she took me on my hand and said , &quot; come , go bryan . you and i , we have to talk . &quot; &apos;y@@
i remember just being there , like it was yesterday .
i &apos;ll never forget it .
she took me outside , and she said , &quot; bryan , i &apos;m going to tell you something , but you have to promise you won &apos;t be talking . &quot;
i said , &quot; i &apos;m sorry . &quot;
she said , &quot; honey word ? &quot; i said , &quot; yes . &quot; . . .
she sat down and looked at me . she said , &quot; i want you to know that i saw you &apos;ve seen me . &quot; .
she said , &quot; i think you &apos;re something special . &quot;
she said , &quot; i think you can do anything you want to do . &quot;
i &apos;ll never forget that .
then she said , &quot; only you have to promise me three things , bryan . &quot; .
i said , &quot; okay , oma . &quot;
she said , &quot; the first thing i &apos;m going to leave you is that you &apos;re going to be happy . &quot;
she said , &quot; your momma is , and you have to promise that you &apos;re always going to take care of you . &quot;
i gave my mother , so i said , &quot; yes , i &apos;m actually , you know , i &apos;m going to do
then she said , &quot; what next i am to do is you &apos;ll always do the right thing . &quot; even if it &apos;s hard to do the right thing . &quot; .
i thought , &quot; yeah , ma . i promise . &quot; , i promise . &quot; , i
finally , she said , &quot; the last thing you have to promise to me is &quot; you &apos;re never going to drink alcohol .
well , i was nine years old , and so i said , &quot; yes , grandmother . i promise . &quot;
i grew up in the country , in the old , rural south , and i have a brother who &apos;s older and a year younger sister .
when i was about 14 or 15 years old , my brother came home one day , and brought me home , and i got to see a seed beer with a snapging , my sister and i went to the forest . . .
we are only around the way or so . . . . .
and he took a beat beer and offered my sister &apos;s friend , and she assumed , and then they call me one . one .
i said , &quot; no , no , no . right . do you do it . i don &apos;t want a beer . &quot; . &quot; .
my brother said , &quot; well , you go ahead . now , we do that , you know , you &apos;re
i had something , your sister had what , she had a beer .
i said , &quot; i don &apos;t want to . don &apos;t you just do it . &quot; . &quot; . &quot; . &quot;
my brother stared at me . . star@@
he said , &quot; what &apos;s going on with you ? now , what do you do
and then he saw me in the face and said , &quot; oh no , you &apos;re not going to make you crazy about the conversation with grandmother ? &quot; ,
i said , &quot; what are you talking about ? &quot; what ?
he said , &quot; oma tells us all grandmath that they are special . &quot; .
i was devastated .
i i &apos;m probably going should to not get do you that to
. something . . . . . .
this is probably going to transfer public . .
i &apos;m 52 years old , and i &apos;m standing there , i &apos;ve never dropped a drop of alcohol . . .
i &apos;m not saying this because i think it &apos;s virtue . i say that because of identity means that it means that
if we can create the right kind of identity , we can tell people around us , they &apos;re not thinking of things that they &apos;re starting to
we can get them to do things that they thought they could . . .
of course , my grandmother would tell all of her grandchildren , she &apos;s special . .
my my grandunfather cle was died in up prison to during al@@
the coprohol hiindustrial bidisease tion . in prison .
and she believed that this was the subjects we needed to take care of
i &apos;ve tried to say something about our law system . . .
this land is different from 40 years ago . . .
in 1972 , 300,000 people were in payoff and in prison .
today it &apos;s 2.3 million . today
the united states today has the highest incarceration rate in the world today .
seven million people are disguised , or by the opposite crimin@@
in my view , mass incarceration is fundamentally changing our world . . .
in socially disguking and black parts of the population are desperation and hopelessness , because of these changes . . . .
one in three to 30 , in a lot of the old , in a prison , discount , left in currency , or by any other
in urban communities all over the country -- from los angeles philadelphia , baltimore to washington -- 50 to 60 percent of black young men are either in great , in prison , disparate , or displaced with other
but it &apos;s not just a question of questions that have to do with race , it &apos;s also created by poverty . . . generated .
we have a law system in this country that they treat a lot better if they &apos;re rich and innocent than poor and innocent . . . .
wealth , not debt , affects the result .
but we still seem to be satisfied with it .
a policy of fear and anger has convinced us that these problems are not our problems . . .
we &apos;ve lost the touch .
i find that interesting . .
there are some interesting developments . . . .
my home alabama is constantly dragging her vote when sentencing precipitation . . . . . . .
and here , in alabama , 34 percent of the male world population has permanently lost their symptoms .
we predict that in 10 years , the rate of the envision of the global liberty rights is going to be as big as the election of the election act . . a premis@@
the silence is opartment . .
i give you a little
a lot of my clients are very young .
the united states of america is the only country in the world , convicted of 3-year-olds
in this country there is no more dismal iron of life without any inferi@@
we &apos;ve already run a lot of technology . .
the only country in the world .
i give people a death cells .
the death penalty question is an interesting question . .
we think , because you &apos;ve taught us that the real question is : did a human deserve to die for one of them ? an object ? a
this is a very sensitive question . .
but you can also think about how we &apos;re going to see our identity .
the other view is not : does anybody make a death for a crime , but is , do we deserve to kill ? ? to kill ? ?
i find that fascinating . .
the death penalty is defined by irreverence .
nine people we &apos;ve executed , comes from one that we &apos;ve been executed for innocent , which has been devoted and disabled from death .
an amazing error rate : one of nine innocent . . . .
i find that fascinating . .
we would never let anybody fly with an airplane if nine planes that go out , a drop . . . . .
but somehow we can make it up , and we can scale
it &apos;s not our problem .
it &apos;s not our trude .
it &apos;s not our struggle .
i talk a lot about these questions .
i talk about race and the question of whether we are right to kill .
and i it talk &apos;s about exciting terrorbecause ism i , teach the my time students at afthe roend american of history the
. world i world talk , about to slaworld very war . ii . slavery . . . sla@@
we don &apos;t really know very much about that .
but for african-american , it was a period of terror . .
in many areas , people had to fear of lyngos . .
or bombs . bombs . .
it was the fear of terror , who formed her life .
these elderly people are coming to me now and they say , &quot; mr , stevenson , they &apos;re talking , they &apos;re going to stop making it . they &apos;re saying to people that they need to stop saying that we need to stop doing it for the first time
they say , &quot; no -- tell the people that we grew up with this . &quot; .
and after terrorism , of course , after terrorism , of course , they motivated the rapge and decades of pretending submission and
and yet , in our country , there is a dynamic -- we don &apos;t like talking about our problems . .
we don &apos;t like to talk about our history .
and that &apos;s why we don &apos;t really understand the impact of our actions in the historic context . . .
we &apos;re constantly engaging each other .
we create new pronounces and conflict .
it &apos;s hard to talk about race , and i think that &apos;s because we don &apos;t want to get rid of the process of truth and reconciliation . .
in south africa , people understand that the hills are not overhead , without the willingness to truth and reconciliation .
even after the genocide in rwanda , there was this willingness , but not in that country . . .
i &apos;ve been giving a couple of talks in germany about the death penalty
it was fascinating because one of the scientists who was at my talk was going up and said , &quot; you know , it &apos;s deeply disturbing , you hear this talk . &quot; &quot;
he said , &quot; in germany , there is no death penalty . .
and of course , she can never be able to pass it in germany . &quot; .
it was completely silent . then a woman said , &quot; with our history , &quot; with our history it &apos;s impossible that we will ever kill ourselves to be more systematic people in humans
it would be used by us , consciously and by people . &quot; . &quot; . &quot; . &quot; . &quot; . .
i was thinking about it .
what it would feel like to be in a world where german state was going to people , especially if they were unproportionally many jews . , if they
it it would would be be inused toler@@
. able . . . .
and yet , here in this country , in the states of the old south , we &apos;re moving people -- here &apos;s the risk of becoming deaths , to death , if the sacred is white , if the sacred is white , and the victim knows -- in the same state , the body knows the body , the poor people shred people . in the state of the state , the solid people hide people . in the same state , where
and yet , there is this mental lining .
i think our identity is threatened .
if we don &apos;t care with this difficult topic , the positive and wonderful things are also affected . . things .
we love innovation .
we love technology and creativity . .
we love entertainment .
but eventually , these realities are overwhelmed by suffering , abuse , herdering , execution .
it seems to me that i &apos;m going to make both of you .
because for we me &apos;re , ultimately time talking is about going that to we get need time more to hope start , thinking more and committalk ment about to the more poor and
, more the commitdisment advanto taa ged complex , world the . ones that . never come . to be . ted . . .
but in a way , it &apos;s considered to integrate in our own lives .
we all need to believe things that we can &apos;t see . . .
we do . so , we are rational , as much as we appreciate . as we are
innovation , creativity , and development , not just come from our heads . .
they come from ideas that are driven by the persuasion in our hearts . . . .
it &apos;s this head-heart connection that i think is driving us , not just to be open to all the bright and passionate things , but also the dark and the problematic and problematic .
vaccamv havel , the great cheue politician , once said .
&quot; when we were fighting east europe against the oppression , we wanted to do everything , but what we needed most of the most was a hope , a violin orientation , the willingness , sometimes in hopeless places , and being like us . &quot; &quot; ? &quot;
this spiritual orientation is the core of what i believe is also the ted communities that have to engage for it . . .
there is no boundary around technology and design that allows us to be very human , unless we have eyes and ears for poverty , exposed to injustice . . . . .
i want to warn you . this kind of identity requires a lot more to us than if we weren &apos;t robled . than if it
it &apos;s going to be deeply tou@@
i had the great privilege of meeting pink parks , i was a young privilege to meet pink
and so , parks kept coming back to montgomery , where they &apos;re wearing two of their oldest friends , these older women , johnnie carr , who organized the montgomar bus boycott , and he had an incredible watercan-ait , dr. king record , a white person , clifford durr , dr. king representation . a duck , a husband whose husband , cliff@@
so these women were getting involved with themselves . .
and then , as a result , woman carr then went to the town and said , &quot; bryan , wife &apos;s going to the town . we want to talk . . . we want
do you want to come in and listen ? &quot;
and i said , &quot; yes , very much like . &quot; . .
she said , &quot; what are you going to do when you &apos;re here ? &quot; ? &quot;
i said , &quot; i &apos;ll listen . &quot; . &quot;
and i went over and i just laughed . . . .
it was always so inspiring , so brimbeting
one day i was sitting there and i heard this women , and after a couple of hours , a woman turned to me and said , &quot; well , you tell me what the post-equally right was . &quot; . .
what are they trying to do ? &quot; ?
i started my usual talk . . .
i said , &quot; we &apos;re trying to do not against injustice .
now , people want to help people become innocent . .
we want to fight biases and discrimination in the criminal justice system . . .
we want to create life in the long run of life without any inferi@@
we want to do something about the death penalty . .
we we want want to to reduce make the mass number inof
carincermates ation . . &quot; . .
i thought i was thinking of my usual talk , and after that , she looked at me and said , &quot; oh , look . mhmm .
she said , &quot; it &apos;s going to do it very , very tired . &quot; . &quot;
then , in front of me , the woman , carr , put a finger on my face and said , &quot; and so you have to be very , very denser . &quot; . &quot; . &quot;
and so i believe the ted community should be with tadder . .
we need to make ways of addressing , to give us the challenges , this suffering
because ultimately , our humanity is dependent upon our humanity .
in my work , i learned very simple things . . .
i learned some very simple things . .
that we &apos;re all more than the worst thing we ever have . .
i think that &apos;s true for every human being on the
when there is a lie , it &apos;s not just a liar . .
when somebody gets something that doesn &apos;t hear it , it &apos;s not just one thylor . . .
even who kills you is not just a murderer . . .
and because that &apos;s what &apos;s necessary to respect the law to respect the law . . .
i believe also , in many parts of this country , and certainly in many parts of the world , is not wealth . poverty . . .
i don &apos;t think so .
i think that &apos;s the opposite of poverty in many places . justice justice .
and finally , i believe that even though it &apos;s so dramatic , as beautiful and inspiring , and so on , we &apos;re not measured at the end of our technology , not the things we develop , not in our intellect and mind . . . . . . .
finally , a society is not measured by how you &apos;re treating your rich and powerful and privileged , but how you deal with the poor , the judgment , the incarceration . . . .
because in this context , we begin to understand the really amazing things that make us out . . .
sometimes i get the balance . a story to end . . .
sometimes i urge too much .
i &apos;m going to be tired of all of us .
sometimes they have these ideas , even in a very important way . ,
i &apos;ll discuss these children who were too hard in court . . . . .
i go to prison prison and i go to an elevate who may be 13 or 14 years old , and to be an adult in court . .
and then i wonder : how could this happen ? that
how can a judge turn anyone into something that it &apos;s not ?
the judge looks at him as adults , but i see a child . . a child
i had a long time , and i thought my god was , when a judge could turn us into something else , he must have magic and mazmies . . . .
right , bryan , judge has a magic forces . .
you should also want to want to .
and because it was late , and i couldn &apos;t really think anymore , i began working on a post .
i had a 14 year-old , poor young boys as an outcher . . . .
and i started with this . the headline was : &quot; try , my poor , 14 year-old clients like a privileged , white , se5old top of the terderly . &quot; . &quot; . &quot;
in my brief , i explained that the contract of the state of governance and the police are also the police and the police and the contract
there was no such novela line that there &apos;s no nothing in this country except there &apos;s no mistakes . . .
the next morning , i woke up and i couldn &apos;t see if i was just going to read this crazy thing just to get a breath or
and i didn &apos;t just have written it just like i was in the court . . . .
a few months went forward , and i just had a few months . .
and eventually , i decided to do my god , i &apos;ve got to propose in the court and i want to offer
i got into the car , and i was really overwhelmed -- overwhelmed . over@@
so i went to the court . . . . .
and i thought it will be so hard , so painful . . .
and finally , i got out of my car and went up to be up . . .
when i was a disk to the court , there was an older man , black man , janmasters at court . . . .
and he came over to me , and he came over to me and said , &quot; who are you ? &quot;
i said , &quot; i &apos;m angry . &quot; he said , &quot; you &apos;re a lawyer ? &quot; i said , &quot; yeah . &quot; . .
he and came he up was and whhe isgot perme ing .
to me hu. gging . . a . he@@
he said , &quot; i &apos;m so proud of you . &quot;
and i have to say , there was power . .
it was a very deep way deep inside me , identity , the ability to contribute every single person to a community perspective of a hope perspective . perspective .
well , i was entering the court .
once the judge saw me . . . a man . .
he said , &quot; mr. stevenson , did you put this crazy assignment ?
i said , &quot; yes . &quot; and then we started to argue . . .
and more and more people would come in , just because they were an@@
that i had written these crazy things .
police officers came in and buried the state lawyers and buyer workers . .
it was a legal bed system of people who were angry that we talked about skin color , about poverty , about inequality . on inequality . . on inequality .
from my eye angle , i looked at the janitor and down . . . . .
he kept looking through the window , and then heard the whole toy of toywars .
he went up and down . .
finally , this older black man with a very worried shock into the court in the court room , and he sat right behind me , almost on the defense
10 minutes later , the judge announced a second . .
during the break , a police officer came in , the janitors were in court . . . . .
this deputy ran over to the older black . . . . .
he said , &quot; jimmy , what are you doing in the court room ? &quot;
older man up there . he saw the deputy , then he saw me , and he said , &quot; i &apos;ve come here to tell this young man , you lose the goal , give you no eyes . &quot; . &quot; . &quot;
i &apos;ve come to the ted because i believe many of you have figured out that the moral penta &apos;s moral penetration penetrate is a whole range
that we are not completely developed as humans , as long as we &apos;re not taking care of human rights
that our entire lives of survival is linked to every single one of our
that we have to move our visions of technology and design , entertainment and creativity to be in human beings , compassion and justice .
and especially , i want you to be in front of you who are the same , just saying , you don &apos;t lose the goal . give &apos;t you .
they &apos;ve seen this audience , this community , and belongs to helping them do something . . . . . .
what can we do ? ? . what else
bryan stevenson : well ,
if you live in california , there &apos;s a single folk decision where it comes to a business where it is actually a effort to do something about the amount of money that &apos;s going to be run into the politics of punishment . .
here , in california , for example , in california , you &apos;ll have a billion dollars for death penalty , a billion dollars . a billion dollars
and yet , 46 percent of all the trade-offs don &apos;t have any forgiven@@
56 percent of ratio ratio markets don &apos;t
there is a chance to do something . .
this reference is proposing to invest the money in more of these security forces and security . .
i think there are ways everywhere . . .
during the last three decades , the discarceral rate in america is living healthy .
that &apos;s a result that &apos;s often providing into a context with increased inherent infrastructure . .
what would you tell somebody who &apos;s thinking ? ?
well , in fact , the number of violence has not changed very
most of the mass inconsistencies in this country found not really in the class of noncrime .
it was the misguided cross railroad .
so the dramatic number of numbers come in the prison inmates . .
we have moved out of the rhetoric of punishment . .
now we have three versions &apos; laws &apos; laws , which make people behind bars , for a bicycle theft , for the theft of lower good , rather than being harmed them to give back things to sacrifi@@
i think we need to do more to help people become the victims of a punishment , not less .
and i think our present iron relief secrets doesn &apos;t help anybody .
i think that &apos;s what we need to change . . .
now bryan , you really have a string of the vibrant
they &apos;re an inspiring personality .
thank you for being at ted . thank you . .
bin laden &apos;s dying is an elevated risk of a rising risk of wa@@
two : hungry in somalia . speaking in somalia , speak@@
four : bad cartels . speaker 5 : dangerous bows . .
number one : the decreasation .
eight different : speaktsuners am: idrug war@@
war sion . : the tsunmass ami of attacmass
recession . viomsday . tyypt . yypt . syria
crisis . death . disaster .
oh my god . .
so these are just a couple of the clips i &apos;ve collected over the last six months -- but could have been the last six days . or the last six years
the fact is that the media preferred it to show us negative issues because our minds paying attention to exactly these issues . enough to
and there &apos;s a very good reason for that .
every second every day we catch our senses much more information than our brain can ever get hurt . . .
and because of us , we &apos;re not more important than our survival , the first time for all of the information is part of our temporal lobes , the amygdala .
so the amygdala is our early warning system , our vehicle detector . .
it &apos;s taking and catching all the information that &apos;s going on for any of the pressures in our surro@@
so if we look at the news , we prefer to look look at negative news . .
and the old adage , if it floats , the demand is very true . . .
now , with all our digital devices that have to put us seven days a week , 24 hours a day , to have all these negative news , it &apos;s not a miracle we &apos;re going to
it &apos;s not a miracle that everybody thinks it &apos;s always getting worse .
but maybe this is not the case .
possibly this is the reality . . .
perhaps , the vast amount of progress we &apos;ve done in the last century that we &apos;ve done in the last century that we &apos;ve done is so strong that we will be able to create a world of overall value in the next three
well i &apos;m not saying we don &apos;t have big problems -- climate crisis , bio-extinct , water problems -- we &apos;ve already got . . .
and as humans , we &apos;re much better at seeing problems at a very long time , but they &apos;re finally overcoming . .
so , let &apos;s see what we &apos;ve achieved in the last century , so we can for@@
in the last 100 years , average life expectancy has more than doubled that translation has increased the average income income of the world &apos;s population has been tripled .
child mortality is a tenth of child mortality .
and the reason that diet , the power , the electricity costs and the cost of translation costs have cut down a multipli@@
steve pinker showed us that we live in a very peaceful time of human history . . history . .
and according to charles kenny , the alphabacism rate has gone from 25 percent to 80 percent in 80 percent .
we live in a really extraordinary time . .
and many people forget this .
and we &apos;re going to increase our expectations on our own
in fact , we &apos;ve redefined poverty . .
remember that a big percentage of americans who live under poverty are having access to power , water , toilets , refrigerators , tall , cellphones , climate change , cars . . phones .
the richest capitalists of the last century , the imperative brothers of the earth , never have been able to dream such as luxury . as lux@@
the basis of many of these , these are the technologies , and they grow exceptives .
my good friend ray kurzweil has shown us that every tool that is going to become information technology on the curve of moore &apos;s law , and the price performance source of all 12 to 24 months .
so your mobile phone costs about a million times less , and it &apos;s thousands of times faster than a supercomputer from the &apos; 70s . . .
now look at this curve .
this is moore &apos;s law of the last hundred years .
notice two things on this curve . . .
first , how do you get lost -- in good ways , war or peace , recession , depression and high miencement . . .
this is the result of faster computers building faster computers . , building the
it slows down for no one of our big problems .
and , despite their logarithmic , on the left , it &apos;s upward . on the left . it upward .
so growth is accelerating itself . . . .
and on that curve , in the back of moore &apos;s law , we find a series of extraordinary technologies that we have . . .
&quot; cloud-computing , &quot; which my friends call my friends at the car interface , can sensory sensors and networks , robots , 3d printer , which allow you to democratize personal production on our planet , synthetic biology , fossil vaccine , and the ability to use digital intelligence . . . &amp; lt ; em &amp; gt
how many of you have seen the victory of ibm supercomputer in &quot; risk ? &quot; ? &quot; risk
that was a serial . .
i &apos;ve been doing the newspapers , and i was looking at the best headlines i could find .
i love this : &quot; watson beating human enemy . &quot; . &quot; .
risk is not a simple game . . .
it &apos;s about understanding the nuances of language .
imagine that this artificial intelligence act of any cell phones is available to your own mobile phone . . . .
four years ago , ray kurzweil , and i &apos;m here at ted , and i &apos;m having &quot; singularity
we &apos;re bringing our students all together , with special focus on how these are used to solve the big challenges of humanity .
and every year we ask students to create businesses , businesses and services , which can be positive within the year of billions of people in a decade . human com@@
think about that , a group of students today can impact the lives of billions of people today . . . .
thirty years ago that it was fucking . . .
today , we can tell dozens of companies that have been able to do exactly
when i think of creating flow , i don &apos;t mean life of luxury for everybody on the planet ; it &apos;s what i &apos;m about to create a life of opportunities .
it &apos;s about creating scarce goods . . . . .
scarcity is contexted , and technology is a liberating force . . . .
here &apos;s an example . .
this is the story of napoleon iiia in the middle of the 1800s
he &apos;s the guy on the left . .
he &apos;s invited the king of siam to dinner .
napoleon soldiers got silt.randed , napoleon himself , got golde containers . . . a con@@
but the king of siein got aluminum condense . . . .
aluminum was the most valuable metal on the planet , more valuable than the horse and plain . . .
this is why the waking drum of the drnot was made out of aluminum . .
and though aluminum takes 8.3 percent of the world , it &apos;s not going to be a basin metal . . .
it &apos;s connected to oxygen and silicon . . .
but then the technology of the electrolyse developed , and made aluminum intent , that we use it with our disposal mentality
and then we can put this analogy into the future
we &apos;re thinking today about energy scarcity
ladies and gentlemen , we live on a planet of 5,000-times more energy than we use every year . than a year
16 terawatts of energy prune in the surface of the earth . .
it &apos;s not a scarcity problem , the problem is accessibility .
and there &apos;s good news . news
this year , you &apos;ve done it for the first time , the cost of solar power in india to 50 percent of the same electricity -- 8.8 rupees compared to 17 rupees .
solar , solar , decreased by 50 percent of the
last month , this was published with a study that shows that until the end of this decade , the sun areas of the u.s. solar energy will six cents a kvh compared to 15 cents per mass . . a five-cent average
and if we have a energy overload , we &apos;ll also have water in abundance
let &apos;s talk about water wars .
do you remember when carl sagan was in 1990 , when it was on saturn , back to earth ? , back to earth , went back
he took a famous photograph . how did it mean ?
&quot; a pale blue dot . &quot;
because we live on a waterplanet .
we live on a planet that &apos;s covered to 70 percent with
yes , there are 97 and a half percent saltwater , two percent are dense , and we &apos;re fighting by 0.5 percent of the water , but there &apos;s also hope .
and it there &apos;s are new new nantechnologies ot, echnnot ology in on 10 the or
way 20 , years nan, obut materials now . it &apos;s . now . .
and this morning , with dean kaman , one of the innovators of doing this , i want to share with you something -- he gave me the permission -- his engineering , the &quot; slingra &quot; , &quot; and many of you may have heard about it , has the size of a refrigerator in the medical school .
it can produce a thousand gallons of cleaning clean water every day -- whether saltwater , polluted water , larine -- and all this for less than two cents a gallon . .
coca-cola has just launched a great test project to launch a hundred units into developing countries . . . . .
and if everything goes well , and i &apos;m very confident , then coca-cola will apply this technology to be applied to 206 countries around the planet . .
this is technology sponsored innovation today . . . . .
and we &apos;ve also seen this in mobile phones .
my goodness , we &apos;ll soon achieve the 70 percent decrease rate of mobile phones in developing countries to end 13 . . in
just consider that a massaid warrior with a cell phone in the middle of kenya is a better mobile communication than president reagan earlier years ago . . .
and if you search with your smart phone on google , you have more access to knowledge and information as a president of a clinton , 15 years ago .
they live in a world that has information and communication in the flow of the way that nobody could have predicted .
and it &apos;s better than that , which you &apos;ve spent several thousand dollars on -- gps , hd video and photograph , libraries of books and music to medical diagnostics -- now materialized and cheaper in their mobile phones -- are literally materialized and cheaper in their mobile phone .
and the best part is that what we expect in health is . . .
i had the pleasure of the day , the formal foundation , which is called &quot; $ 10 million mass tricortee , &quot; the x prize . &quot; .
we &apos;re asking teams around the world to connect all of these technologies together in a mobile phone , so that you can talk with the device , because it &apos;s equipped with ai , you can test your blood values . , you can test your blood
and to win , the device needs a better diagnosis to the very damaging doctors . skilled doctors . .
imagine this device . in the middle of a developing country , where there are no doctors , but 25 percent of the disease burden and 1.3 percent of the public health care system .
if this device sequenced a rna or dna virus that isn &apos;t known , it calls health control and preventing a pandemic in front of her . . . .
but now the biggest force that will take us to a world of overall . .
i call them the coming billion . .
the white lines are population . lines .
we &apos;ve just gone through the 7-billion-plus
and just by the way , the biggest insurance against population explosion is a better education and nutrition in
in 2010 , we had two billion people connected online . one with two billion
by 2020 , we get a predictive idea of two billion internet users .
three billion new minds that we &apos;ve never heard of before will be the global communications . .
what are these people need ?
what are you going to consume ? what are you going
and instead of economic stillness , i see one of the largest economic assessments of history .
these people represent multiple deaf dollars that will flow into global economy . .
and they &apos;ll be getting into the use of the tricoder , and they &apos;re going to be getting trained trained by the khan academy , and by doing that they &apos;re going to have a chance to use 3d printer and infinite computing , and so
so what can we bring to growing , one-to-educated , productive , productive members of the human community ?
what about a sentence set of new , never spoken . .
how about that to be the oppressed , wherever you are , give voice to yourself , to make change , the first time ever ? ?
what are these three billion people bring in ?
how about both bites we can &apos;t even predict ?
one of the things that i learned from the x prize is that small teams that are motivated by the incredible and focus can create extraordinary things , things that have large companies and governments just in the past . in
i want to finish with a story that really got me excited . .
you have a program that maybe you may know . . .
it &apos;s a game that is called tormail
it was developed at the university of washington in seattle .
and it &apos;s a game where people can actually take a sequence of amino acids to study how protein is going to be going to go .
so depending on his behavior , we can predict the structure and function . .
and this is very important in medical research . .
so , this is a problem for supercomputers . . .
and this game was played by university professors and so on . .
and it &apos;s been hundreds of thousands of people who have played the game online . .
and it showed that these days , the human pattern recognition is better than the best supercomputers . than the best supercomputers . .
and when these guys came and watched who the best protein folder of the world is , this was not a mit-professor , but it was not a mittech student , it was someone from england , manchester , a woman who was working on the doorstep as a assistant to the business trade in a rehab hospital and at night the world &apos;s best protein dacters . .
ladies and gentlemen , what gives me tremendous confidence in our future is the fact that we are doing more power today to address the big challenges of our planet . . challenges
we we have have access the to passion tools of using a exponenti@@
dial y technology inno. vator . .
we have the capital of techno-philanthropy . .
and we have three billion new minds that we can work on online to master the new challenges , and to do what it takes . .
we expect some extraordinary decades . .
thank you .
i think we need to have a change in transit medical culture . . . .
and i think it starts with a medical age and i am . .
and maybe i &apos;ve been in business for a long time , than i can afford it to give me a piece of my own mischelling prestige
but before i get to the true issue of my talk , let &apos;s start with a little bit of base@@
hey , why not ?
we &apos;re the seasonal altogether and move on the world &apos;s macus
we all love baseball , right ? ?
so baseball is full of the great statistics .
and there are hundreds of them .
moneyball will soon appear and turn about statistics and to use a great ball of baseball team . . . a great base@@
i &apos;m going to go on to a statistics that most of you have heard of . , most of
it &apos;s the average performance on the bat
we &apos;re talking about a 300 , if a bat bucks 300 . .
that means that the player is safe for three of 10 beats . . . . . .
it &apos;s going to beat the ball in the output , it comes up , it &apos;s not going to catch the ball , and who &apos;s trying to throw the ball on the first base , it didn &apos;t take on on
three out of 101 .
do you know how to call a 3,000-herz league baseball ?
well , really good , maybe a single star . .
you know how to call a 400,00000000,@@
that &apos;s somebody who &apos;s been in the opposite safe from 10 . . . . .
legendary -- like ted williams &apos;s adumman -- the last chase league baseball player , who saw a rainy season for 400
let &apos;s go back to my world of medicine where i feel a lot of well-comfortable , or maybe a little less good for you to talk about them . . . with
if you have a blind design , you &apos;re transferred to a kind of a surgery , your average performance is 400 in terms of blindness
somehow it doesn &apos;t work , right ? ?
imagine it &apos;s in a certain remote area and you have a beloved person with severe heart disease and their company , and you delay them to a cardiac , whose average performance in the body of cars is 200 . . in 200 . in the conflutac@@
but , you know what ? ?
she &apos;s a lot better this year . it &apos;s on the rising . . .
and it proposes a 2557 .
it doesn &apos;t work that way .
but i &apos;ll ask you a question . .
what do you think the average performance for a cardiologist or a nurse or an orthopedic or a birthman or an orthopa ? a birthman ? a forila ? a for@@
1,000 , very good .
the truth is that nobody in the whole medicine knows what a good surgeon or a doctor or a deceptive was supposed to be . . .
what we &apos;re doing though is we &apos;re going to enemme each of you to share me in the world with perfect . . .
never make a mistake , but nobody does it , but it &apos;s about the details of the world , what it is that
and this is the message i took in medical school . . . .
i was a forced student . . . .
in high school , a student told a student that brian goldman would learn for a blood test .
and it was . .
and i learned in my little roof chair in the sisters of general hospital , and i found off on general hospital . from here .
i learned everything out . .
in my anatomary speaking reading , i learned the origins and runs every reason , every branch of every artery that takes away from the aorta , obscure , ordinary differences . . .
i knew the difference diagnosis to classify the renal tububure . . . .
and that &apos;s all the time , i gathered more and more knowledge .
and i was good , i was going to finish with cum laude . .
and i left the medical school to show that , if i knew everything , and knew everything , or at least as much as possible , as close to complete comfort as possible , that i was immobile against doing that . . .
and for a while , i was going to work for a while , until i
i was resistant to a teacher hospital in toronto as a woman printer to me in the hospital department department of the hospital hospital . . . .
at this point , i was the cardiac layer in cardiology service . . .
and it was my permission when the emergency net cardiological council was looking at the emergency patient , investigating patient patient .
and review to my upper doctor .
i studied printer in breathing and she was in breathing . .
and when i was listening to her , she made noises . . .
and when i heard her chest with the stethoscope , i could hear a cracker sound on both side , and it told me that she was under congestion heart failure .
this is a state where the heart is losing , instead of pumping the blood on the lung , it &apos;s a part of the blood in the lung and it fills out these illuminally , therefore the short indoor . . , the short indoor . .
and that wasn &apos;t a hard diagnosis . .
i put them and made the treatment . . .
i gave her aspirin . i gave her medicine the printing of the heart of the heart . .
i gave her medicine to the diudtics , and the water of the dumb towels so that you just google the liqui@@
and over a minute and a half to two hours , she began feeling better . . .
i felt really good . .
and i made my first mistake ; i sent it home . . .
actually , i made two mistakes . .
i sent them home with my heart doctor . .
i didn &apos;t take the listener on and did what i should have been , what would have been a call for my big doctor to encounters it so that he had an opportunity to make a chance
and he knew he &apos;d have been able to navigate some extra information . . . .
i might do it with good reason . reason
maybe i didn &apos;t want to be the assistance of the need for the medical
maybe i wanted to get so successful and so capable of taking up the responsibility for me to have a handle that i was so handled and so on to try to get my patients to contact him
my second mistake was worse . . .
and that i sent them home , i exforced a sound voice in me that tried to tell me , &quot; goldman , no good idea . don &apos;t do it . &quot; . &quot;
i mean , in really missing sense , i was so concerned about self-security that i asked the nurse , who was going to work for women , &quot; do you think it &apos;s okay if you go home
and the nurse thought about it and he said , &quot; yeah , i think it will go well . &quot; , i think you &apos;ll be
i remember being as if it was yesterday .
so i signed the refugee tube and a clinic and i got them home . . . . .
and i went back to work . . .
and the rest of my day , the night i had this nadest feeling in my stomach . . . .
but i kept working . . .
and at the end of the day , i quit my stuff , dropped the hospital , and i went home to drive the car , and i was going to go home to the park i wouldn &apos;t do
i went to my way home the emergency department on my way
and there was another nurse , not the sister who &apos;d been seen for the woman printer , but another three words to me , and these three words fear most of the news doctors i know . . the chord men i know .
other medical men tend to be these same , but the emergency medicine is very special because we &apos;re just seeing the patients . .
three words say , do you remember ? ?
&quot; do you remember the patient you were going to meet at
asked the nurse . . . asked .
&quot; so she &apos;s back , &quot; she said in that particular clay .
so she was back . .
she was back and die . .
about an hour after an hour after which i sent her home , and she collapsed , and the family gave 911 . the bailassists , they brought them back to the emergency ward with a blood pressure of 50 , which is a dangerous shock of shock .
she barely breathe and was blue . . a
the emergency patient did all the strings . . .
they gave their blood pressure on their own . .
they shut them up to the tutoring
i was shocked , and i was drawn into the inner
and i was living this rollercoaster because they went after the variation on the intensive care station and hoped that she would recover . . that she would recover
and after two , three days , it realized that she never would have ever opened up . . .
she had not suffered one of her brain damage
her family had gathered .
and over the course of eight days or nine days , they spent the lovely . . .
the next day they got them -- they were printer , a woman , a mother , a mother , and grandmother . . .
you say that you &apos;re the names of the people who never forget
and that was the first i ever learned this . . . .
i made the decision for the next few weeks , and i first learned the unhealthy shame that exists in our medical culture -- i felt myself , isolated , not the kind of healthy shame you felt , because you can &apos;t talk to the colleagues . than you can &apos;t talk to the colleagues .
you all know the healthy shame when you give the best of your best friends &apos;s secret , even though that one &apos;s dispersed in a forwardor , and then you get caught and that best friend leads to this and i have a terrible discussion if you &apos;re at the end that it takes some sort of buertime and you &apos;ll get
if you &apos;re exaggerating , and you never ever make the
this is the kind of educational shame . .
the unhealthy way i &apos;m talking about is the one that makes you sick in the inside of the
it &apos;s the one who tells you not what you did is not what you do . you can do it yourself
and that was what i felt . .
and it wasn &apos;t because of my top , he was very loaded . .
he talked to the family , and i &apos;m sure he made the wound and surely convinced that i would not be suing . . .
but i was thinking about these questions .
why did i not ask the rule of the face ? why did i occupanate
and then my worst moments : how could i make a stupid error ? ?
why slowly did , i it go turned to out medicine
to ? be safe ? . in .
i started feeling better . . .
and then on a weekly day , there was a hole in the clouds and the sun , and maybe i can feel better again . feeling better . feeling better
and i was assuming that if i doubled my efforts to perfection and never give a boil that the voice could be terrified . .
and and she i did kept . working
on . . . .
and then it happened again .
two years later i had service in the emergency center in a community hospital north of toronto and i worship a 25-year-old man with drawed glimpse . . a
it was much less gone , and i was in a hurdle .
he always pointed here .
i looked in the rut , and it was a little bit embarrassed
and i gave him a phrase for penicillin and sent him to him . .
and then , even when he went out the door , he showed up on his raw . . .
two days later , i came to my next pitchcase service and my cheapman , and i asked me to go on to the school . . .
and she said three words : do you remember ? ?
&quot; do you remember the patient with the very easy rap ? &quot; ?
it he turns had out a he potential was lifea -tradangerous pdisease cocalled co@@
the cepiic glinfeotction ti. tis . . . .
you can get googlers , but it &apos;s not infection of rail , but the top minor and causing the breathing down . . . . .
and fortunately , he didn &apos;t die .
he got an anti-boothous anti-booma and recovered a few days later .
and i went back through the same torture of shooty and self-doubt , and i felt regreed and went back to work until it happened and again and again
in an emergency class , i &apos;ve seen two times a blind mental design .
there &apos;s some things that i &apos;ve been hearing about , especially when you think you &apos;re working in a hospital that was only 14
in both cases , i sent them home , and i wouldn &apos;t have a flowing either , and i don &apos;t have a
and i thought he had kidney stones .
i put x-ray on the kidgine . when it was without the evidence , my colleague had a revision of the patient &apos;s revision in the bottom right . and called the operator . . . .
the other one had strong diarrhea . .
i and beat he airdid s , to and reas hyhe drinoticed te a it diand arasked di@@
my on colleagues on to the actually right resector cu, sahe te called him the . operat. ers
in both both of cases them , were surgery in became love surgery with , me and
. they were . doing well . . . . .
and i would be happy to tell you that my worst errors were only going to achieve in the first five years , which is a lot of my colleagues , but total nonsense .
some of my mysteries happened in the last five years . . .
by itself , shittered and without support
here &apos;s the problem : if i didn &apos;t close my lens and talk about them , if i &apos;m lucky , which tells me what really happened , how can i share it with my collaborators ? ? ? my
how do i teach you my mistakes so that you don &apos;t get the same ones ? ,
if i &apos;m in a room -- like now , i have no idea what you think about me . . .
when &apos;s the last time you &apos;ve ever heard of somebody who was wrong about failures
oh yeah , you go to a cocktail party , and you might hear about anybody else &apos;s , but you &apos;re not going to hear anybody about your mistakes . .
when i would ask in a room full of colleagues and to talk to their soviet support and to tell you what i &apos;ve just told you about , i &apos;m very likely not to reach the end of the second story before you really would have a good idea of making it really uncomfortable to you , any one would switch the issue and the rest of the rest
and actually , if i or my colleagues knew that an orthopedic in my hospital had taken somebody wrong on my hospital , then they believe me , i had trouble looking at him . . . .
that &apos;s the system in which we live .
it &apos;s a completely denial of errors .
it &apos;s a system where there are two basic positions -- the ones that make errors and those who don &apos;t . the ones who don &apos;t do it , the ones who are disconcerting and the people who don &apos;t do the bad results and the good results .
it &apos;s almost an ideological response like antibodies that attack a human . . . .
and there &apos;s the idea that if we have the ones that make mistakes from medicine , we have a sure system . . . .
but there are two problems . .
in my like 20 years of the medical record and journalism , i &apos;ve got a personal medical study on medical mistakings and wrong treaties , and i &apos;ve written a personal study on medical mistakes and wrong treatments , and i wrote , learning . . . . , learning .
and what i learned is that mistakes are absolutely displaced . . . .
we &apos;re working in a system where every day we seem to catch mistakes in a given time , which is either a fake or wrong dose in the hospital hospital , getting in and over and over and causing a lot of devastation . . . . wins , and
in this state , about 24,000 canadian people die in the state of odor-dosted mistakes
the institute for medicine is the basis for medicines . in the united states
they &apos;re very strong underground because we don &apos;t really care about the problem of the way that we should . . . .
and is the grax .
in a hospital system where medical knowledge , all of you have doubled , we can &apos;t help up . . .
sleep sleeping is ubiquitous . .
we can &apos;t get rid of him .
we have a cognitive error , so we can take a perfect disease on a patient with a headache .
and i take the same patient with the chest pain , i sweatured and advance and give a little alcoholized breath , and suddenly the story is beginning to wonder . . .
i don &apos;t take the same track .
i &apos;m not a robot ; i &apos;m not doing things the same way . .
and my patients are not cars ; they don &apos;t always tell me the symptoms in the same way . .
all of this is inexable to make mistakes .
so if you take the system as i was taught , and i &apos;ve been doing all the frightened health workers , then at the end of the time , no more than that
and you know the easier people who want to talk about their worst cases ? ?
in my show , &quot; white coat , black art . &quot; i &apos;m the habit to say , &quot; this is my worst mistake , &quot; i would say to each of the resilal pasts to the chirer , &quot; this is my worst mistake &quot; blah , blah , blah , blah , blah , &quot; what about her ? &quot; and then i show the microphone to him . . a thing and then i show
and then your pupils come , they popped off the head , then look down and scished , and they start to tell their stories . .
they want to share their stories . they want to share their stories .
they want to be able to say , &quot; look , don &apos;t do the same mistakes i was making .
what they need is an environment that will make you feel able to do
what you need is a new medical culture . .
and it starts with a doctor . . .
the redefined of the physician is a human , white knows , is not to make it wrong , but it &apos;s all to be learned from them so that it can be passed on . . . .
it divides their experiences with others .
it supports other people talking from their mistakes . .
and it &apos;s beating other people &apos;s mistake , not to contemplate , but in a loving , supportive way , so that everybody &apos;s contributing to it
and she &apos;s working in a medical culture that recognizes that people are living the system with life , and when they are , people also make mistakes from time to time . . .
so that the system will evolve to create backups , which make it easier to scream to erase mistakes , to create the people who make the health care , even as much as pushing , to create support of support in which anyone who looks at health care is actually actually capable of making things that are possible , and that will be specific for people like me to make erration in this rewards . . for people like me who
my name is brian goldman .
i &apos;m the redefined . .
i &apos;m a man . i do mistakes .
i feel there . but i &apos;m trying to learn best to pass on to others . on top of it .
i don &apos;t know what you think of me , but i can live with it . .
let me close with three of my own words : i remember . .
i &apos;m going to talk about a tiny , little idea .
it &apos;s about changing standards . . .
and because you can explain this idea , i &apos;m going to tell you three stories about how to use the time . .
the first story is charles darwin , one of my heroes . .
you know that he was in 1835 here . . .
you might think that he had finies , but that &apos;s not true . .
and actually , he collected fish .
he described one of them as &quot; utilitizing . &quot;
it was a zasthouper . .
and in the &apos; 80s , he was fished into great style .
now it &apos;s on the red list . dangerous . .
we &apos;ve heard this story many times from the galapagos , or from other places , it &apos;s not very special . . .
yet , we still get to the galapagos . .
we still think they &apos;re originally . .
the brockles describe them untouched . .
what happened here ? ?
the second story would be a different concept , the changing stations , indicating . .
because i was seeing a lagoon when i studied a lagoon in the west africa
i went there because i grew up in europe , and i wanted to work in africa later .
i thought i could let myself to let myself .
and i got a bad sunlight , and i was convinced that i wasn &apos;t going to go from there
it was my first sollil .
you can see , the lagoon of palms and some of the mangroves were huddled around . .
there were something about the 20-incentives , sub-cale wall , an underdog of the bunk . . .
the fisheries of these bunk were very entraced , and the fishermen were good at the fishermen who were good at the exact
when i returned to it for 27 years later , the fish was shrinking half its heights
they &apos;ve grown up five centimeters . .
they were genetically pressed . .
they were still fish . fish
people were still happy . .
and the fish also had been lucky , even there .
so nothing changed , and yet it changed . changed
my third little story , my third little story , talks about the train network of the city , southeast asia . .
in the 1970s -- more at the beginning of the &apos; 60s -- europe has many development projects . .
and the other thing that has happened is , the countries that have been growing around 100 fish , the industrial fishing trains that have is mutiara 47
i went on and we made errals all around the south south of china , and in the javasee . in the
we didn &apos;t have words for what we were starting there . .
i now know that it was the cause of the ocean . . .
90 percent of our path were spontaneous , other animals associated with the cause . . .
most of the fish that are the little dots on the stairstore , the pee of the crop , were coral reefs . fish . fish
and the reason the ocean came from the ground and then was back . . .
these pictures are extraordinary , because the transition goes very fast . .
within a year , you &apos;re going to get an survey of a survey ,
the reason is transformed . -- in this case , a hard ground or a long corn is going to be matched .
this is a dead turtle .
they &apos;re not eaten , you were going to be dead . . .
we started one day . . .
she wasn &apos;t drunk . .
then they wanted to kill them , because you could eat them well .
in fact , this mountain of crumbral bags is collected by fishing every time they &apos;re going into areas that have never been seen
but it &apos;s not going to document
we &apos;re changing the world , but don &apos;t remember it .
we &apos;re just adding our habits to the new level , and we don &apos;t remind ourselves of what was
so , if you generalize it , what happens .
on the y-axis , there are some good things : biodiversity , number of orca , the green reserve . green . water supply
over time , it changes . it changes because for the people , they naturally are natural
every generation looks at the images in your mind at the beginning of her conscious life as standard and will devise everything . .
the difference then becomes a loss . . . .
but they don &apos;t take the precipitary losses .
it can give a sequence of changes . .
and just by the end , you just want to get the loss of the remaining
that &apos;s what we &apos;re aager now . . . . .
we want to get things that are disappeared or things that are no longer as they were .
you might think that the problem is people who are surely , when they lived in their lives , were they killed , and they were not aware of the generations that
because obviously a animal that was very often realized , first of all , before it &apos;s frozen . . .
so , you don &apos;t lose very often in favor
you &apos;re getting less and more rare
and that &apos;s why it &apos;s not a huge loss of loss .
and over time , we &apos;re focused on the big animals and the sea that are the big fish .
they &apos;re going to be rare because we &apos;re catching
with time , little fish are left , and we think that &apos;s value . . .
the question is , why do people accept that ? .
well , because they &apos;re not aware that it was different .
of course , a lot of people , scientists , assume that it was really different . .
they will confirm it because the evidence as they represent in an earlier form are not the way the evidence would be to be applied .
for example , there &apos;s the anecdotes that the report of a chapter saw soundly known as that , which is , in this area , there can be a lot of fish , not being used , because it &apos;s not &quot; scienti@@
so we have the situation that people don &apos;t know the past , despite the fact that we &apos;re living in the educational societies , because they don &apos;t trust the outcome
this shows the tremendous role that can play a marine protected area . .
because through marine reserves , we basically have the past back . .
we &apos;re going to bring the past back , the people that are not able to recognize because the common values are changing and are
so the people who see a marine protected area and reach out of sight that enable it to remove their level of their values . . . . . .
what about the people that aren &apos;t possible because they don &apos;t have access to -- people in the midwest for example ?
so here i think the art and the film may be maybe the gap , and simulating
this is the simulation of chesapeake bay .
there were a long time ago , there were gramals -- 500 years ago . . . .
and the color and the slides , you might remember &quot; avatar . &quot; . &quot;
if you think of &quot; avatar , &quot; if you think about why people are so touched -- except from the poca hons story , why were they so touched by the visual world ? , why
because it &apos;s a little wamory that has lost in a way .
so my recommendation , the only one i &apos;m going to give you , is to go to cameron , so he &apos;s underwater . &quot; water
thank you . .
in the &apos; 80s , the communist eastern germany , you had to , if you had a typewriter , that corresponds to government government
they and also the had reason to it regiwas ster , a the paper government with could forpull
merback ly where in a this text tycame pein writer . . . .
did you find an article with false thought , you could find the creator of this idea . .
and we have not been able to understand how anybody could do that , and how much that would give us freedom of freedom .
we would never do this in our own countries .
but if you can buy a new color printer of the leading laser printer , and print a page , then this page has strived yellow blob on each side , put it into a pattern that clearly makes the page clearly to her and her printer . . a little bit of the way .
that &apos;s what happens today . .
and nobody &apos;s not going to raise up . . .
and this was an example of how our own governments , the technology , are going to use technology . citizens
and this is one of the three main sources of these who existed today
so let &apos;s see what &apos;s really happening in the world : we can divide the attacks in categories . . the attac@@
we there have are three online main
crimingroups als . .
for example , here , this is mr. dimitry golubow from khow in the ukraine .
and the motifs of online criminals are very easy to understand .
these people make money .
they &apos;re using online attacks to earn a lot of money , a huge amount of money
there are several other cases of online millionaians that have made their money money from attacks . . . .
this is wladimir tsastsin from tartu , in estonia .
this is alfred gonzalez .
stephen watts . .
bjfn &apos;s sundin . .
these are matthew anderson , tariq al daor and so on and so forth .
these people have come online to rice , but they have illegal as they &apos;ve used , like , trojer to put money out of our bank bank , as we do our online banking job , or the keyloggers who have collected our credit card information to the keyboard while we &apos;re buying over an infected computer
the u.s. intelligence agency gave the swiss bank two months ago the swiss bank to mr. jain here , and on this govern , 14.9 million u.s. dollars , when it was frozen .
and mr. jain himself is on a very close foot , and the next place is
and i would like to say that today , we are more likely to be victims of an online concoction than a mixing in the real world .
and it &apos;s very obvious that this will get even worse . .
in the future , most of the crimes are going to play online
the second largest community that we can see today is not motivated by money . . .
they &apos;re motivated by something -- protests about , say , an opinion , or through their audience . . . .
groups like anonymous are up over the last 12 months , and has become one of the main players on the field of online attacks .
so these are the three main views of these : criminals who are doing it in the money , hacking hacks like anonymous , who are concerned with , but the last group is nations , governments that are moving the attack .
there &apos;s us to think of us as a result of the diginotar
it shows us exactly what happens when governments attack their own citizens . . .
wrin inthe otlast ar fall is , a it full had body to cerclean tiit fiup cate in from
a the solneace ther, lands because -- the or punit inwas otthat ar . had been . ha@@
somebody was broken and hacked up the system . a broken system
and i did a meeting last week in a meeting with a hand-down government asking if he knew it could be able to appreciate that because of the case of the abinotal hack people died . . people
and his answer was , &quot; yes
now , how do people die of a hack of a hack ?
wrinotar is a certified com@@
they sell certificate . .
what do you do with certificating ?
now , it takes you to use a certificate when you have a website with http , with sl &apos;s encrypted services , for
now we &apos;re all using , or many of us , gmail , or one of your competition , but these are particularly common in complete alitarian states like gmail , where dissidents use the foreign supply of the country , because they know they can trust more than local leaders and that they &apos;re encoded over sl connections , so that the local government doesn &apos;t spell in their conversation . . off .
but if you were to get into an outdoor foreign .
certification , hacking and fake certi@@
and that &apos;s what &apos;s happened in the case of the phrinotar all
how does it compare to the arab spring and the things that have happened in egypt for example
now , in egypt , the advance of 2011 , the main central director of egyptian western police , and they found a lot of action . . . . . . . .
in these acts , a folder named &quot; finegmen . &quot; . .
and in this folder , in a gathering company , a new gathering company in germany had sold some programs that they sold with -- in very large frames -- any communication in the egyptian citizens . . .
they sold this program for 280,000 euros to the egyptian government . .
the center of the company is right there .
so the western governments are leaving a countless governments with tools to move against their own citizens . .
but western governments also help themselves . . .
for example , in germany just a few weeks ago , we found statinaians called statinaians , and this was a trojan who was used by german governmental officials to punch
if you &apos;re located in a criminal situation , you &apos;re going to be stockpiled by secure surfaces . ,
but they today tawe p are their far
internet beyond connection that . . .
they use resources like the state director to map their computers with a trojan who allows them to monitor their entire communication , to monitor their online discussion , to collect their passages . their passwords . .
so if we &apos;re going to think about things like this , the obvious answer of people would say , &quot; ok , that sounds bad , but i &apos;m not sure it &apos;s bad for me , because i &apos;m a
i don &apos;t have to worry
i have nothing to hide . &quot; .
and that reasoning makes no sense . . .
privacy must be given .
privacy is not debate . .
it &apos;s not a decision between privacy and safety .
it &apos;s a decision between liberty and control .
and as we now today , in 2011 , we may trust our governments , but every is right that we will abostit , forever .
and we know , we know , we &apos;re blind to every future government , a government that maybe we will have in 50 years ?
these are the questions that we &apos;re going to have to deal with the next 50 years .
it may seem strange , but i &apos;m a big fan of concrete block . .
the first emphyple we created in 1868 was made and devised a simple idea : module from cement with a broken way of measuring that . .
and emphetle rocks became very rapidly the most scary building unit in
they put us into the shoes of building things bigger than us , buildings , bridges , a stone after the other . . .
essentially , the emphasis was becoming the building block of our time
and so , almost a hundred years later in 1947 , lego came out with
it was called automatically linked rock . .
and within a few years , lego went into every household . . .
it &apos;s been estimated that over 400 billion ststs have made up on the planet -- or 75 blocks for each person on
they don &apos;t have to be an engineer to create beautiful houses , beautiful bridges , beautiful building .
lego made it for everyone . .
lego basically has the concrete block , taken the world &apos;s empire , took out of it into a cash for the possibility .
in the meantime , at the bell labs , the next revolution was announced , the next building . building . the next
the transistor was a little plastic unit that would take us from a world of static , contained , contemplated building blocks to a world where it was interactive
like the concretor block , it allows the transistor to build much greater , more complex circular processes , a stone after another . .
but there &apos;s a big difference : the transistor was only for experts .
i personally don &apos;t accept that the building block is reserved for experts , and so i decided to change it . . .
eight years ago , i was at the media lab , and i started to study this idea of how to put the power of engineers on the hands of artists and designers .
a few years ago , i started developing littlebits .
let me show you how they work .
littlebits are electronic module that have a specific function .
they &apos;re pre-designed to be light , sound , motor and sensor . .
and the best part is they connect with magnets . . .
so you can &apos;t put them wrong around . .
the stone is colored . . .
green is the power , blue is electricity , pink is power and orange is wires .
so all you have to do is to connect blue and a green green , and you can build bigger circles very quickly .
you add a blue to your green , and you can make light .
you can put a switch in between and they make a little dick . . .
take the switch out to a cranl box , and this is , you know , putting a little blind . . .
add that buzzer for an extra effect , and you &apos;ve made a noise machine .
i &apos;m going to stop that .
and it &apos;s actually a pretty powerful play about the simple play , which is
instead of having to code , wiring or committing , you &apos;ve got to program it , you can use it with simple , intuitive gestures
so to accelerate the blink or slow down , you just turn on that button and it &apos;s going to make the momentum faster or slo@@
the idea behind littlebit is that it &apos;s a growing library .
we want every single interaction on this world in a cutting-edge organ . . .
lighter , sound , solar , motors -- everything should be available . .
we distributed littlebars to kids and see them playing with it . .
and it was an unbelievable experience .
the most beautiful thing is , as you start to understand the electronics you &apos;re going to understand in your daily life and you &apos;re not
like , for example , a root light works , or why the doors are reacting to the elevator , or reacting to the dot@@
we &apos;ve brought littlebits to design schools . .
so we had no experience with no experience in electronic things that started playing with littlebar material as a material . . . .
here we see filming , paper and water bottles , like georges ... .
so a couple of weeks ago , we took littlebarities to risd , and we gave them some designers that didn &apos;t have any technical experience -- only kardton , wood and paper -- and they said to them
here &apos;s an example of a project they did , a movement activated congressional congressional cannone .
but wait , this is really my favorite project .
it &apos;s a humbble of play-doh who &apos;s in the darkness .
for those non-engineers , littlebhuhua became another material , and electronics was just another
and we want to make this material available for everyone . .
so littlebhuv source . .
they can go to the website , they &apos;re all going to download all the design directors .
we want to be able to make the world &apos;s creators , inventor , the co-government , because this world , in which we live in , this interactive world is
so just pull los off and start inventing
thank you .
